SAMARA – Aleksandar Kolarov produced a moment of captain's inspiration, curling home a superb free kick as Serbia got their World Cup Group E campaign up and running with a 1-0 victory over Costa Rica on Sunday. With Costa Rica proving a tough nut to crack, Kolarov stepped up to bury a 25-metre effort from wide on the right, lighting up an otherwise tight game in the southern Russian city of Samara. Serbia had dominated against a Costa Rica side who had rarely threatened after a bright start, but chances were thin on the ground until Kolarov made the breakthrough in the 56th minute. READ: Maripan frustrates Serbia, Morocco ease past Slovaks With Brazil heavy favourites to win the group, which also features Switzerland, the victory delivered a potentially vital three points for Serbia and left Costa Rica in a precarious position. After a furious start in which Serbia's Aleksandar Mitrovic had a header scooped off the line and Costa Rica's Giancarlo Gonzalez failed to convert two headed chances, the match settled into a more predictable pattern. Serbia bossed the ball as their enterprising midfield, fusing the experience of Manchester United enforcer Nemanja Matic and the raw talent of Sergej Milinkovic-Savic, got on top. The Lazio playmaker was Serbia's most creative influence, although his blushes were spared by the linesman's flag when he fluffed a first-half chance after racing through on goal. WHAT. A. FREE-KICK.
		KOLAROV IS A LEGEND----#CRCSRB #WorldCup #Serbia #Kolarov pic.twitter.com/SRNPaQigjF That would have been easily forgotten, however, had he converted an outrageous overhead kick moments before the break that forced a brilliant save from Keylor Navas. The bullish Mitrovic spearheaded the Serbia attack and was a menace to Costa Rica with his battering ram approach, but when a fantastic chance fell his way early in the second half, his tame sidefoot finish was easily saved by Navas. READ: Serbia cancels high-risk Kosovo handball match It mattered little, however, as the deadlock was broken when Kolarov produced his moment of magic, curling his free kick left-footed over the wall and past the despairing dive of Navas. There were few chances in the closing stages with Costa Rica substitute Joel Campbell, a mainstay of their run to the quarters four years ago, taking too long to get a shot away when he appeared to be through. Serbian appeals for a penalty were waved away when Mitrovic went down in the box but their disappointment lasted only until the final whistle. Reuters