ABERDEEN, Scotland – Jovan Rebula became the first South African in more than half a century to break the curse of the Royals and win the 123rd Amateur Championship in Aberdeen on Saturday. Rebula sealed the double for GolfRSA when he defeated Irishman Robin Dawson in the 36-hole final at Royal Aberdeen, just four days after fellow GolfRSA National Squad player Wilco Nienaber became the first South African to take the Leading Amateur honour in the 36-hole strokeplay qualifier. CHAMPION! --@JovanRebula wins the 123rd Amateur Championship!#WarEagle | #ChampionsPlayHere pic.twitter.com/ZfrX5EZI5L Prior to Rebula’s triumph, Bobby Cole was the only South African to claim the coveted Amateur Championship title, winning at Carnoustie in 1966, and since then South Africa has lost out in four subsequent finals. In 1980, David Suddards lost at Royal Porthcawl. Ben Fouchee lost at Royal Porthcawl in 1988, Trevor Immelman at Royal St. George’s in 1997 and Zander Lombard at Royal Portrush in 2014. With a combination of exquisite bunker shots, brilliant chips and a handful of clutch putts in windy conditions at the Balgownie Links, the 20-year-old Rebula ended the winning drought when he beat Dawson 3 & 2 – the same winning margin that won Bobby Cole the coveted trophy at Carnoustie in 1966. “I’m very happy and very pleased with myself, the way I handled myself this week,” said the Auburn University student, who earned a berth in The Open Championship at Carnoustie next month, as well as trips to the Masters and the US Open in 2019. He’s bidding to be the first South African---- to lift #TheAmateur trophy since Bobby Cole in 1966.
		
		Meet Jovan Rebula. pic.twitter.com/9wCvnmLGjJ “I’ve really been playing solidly and haven’t made many mistakes this week. It’s a huge honour for me to call myself the Amateur champion. It’s something out of this world.” Rebula accomplished something his famous uncle, four-time Major champion Ernie Els, couldn’t accomplish in three tries. Els played a part in the final at Royal Porthcawl in 1988, when he caddied for Fouche. JOVAN REBULA is the first South African to win the Amateur Championship in 52 years! 20-year-old from George GC and nephew of Ernie Els beat Ireland’s Robin Dawson 3/2 at Royal Aberdeen – qualifies for The Open at Carnoustie, Masters at Augusta National & US Open.-------- pic.twitter.com/SrFlhk8d67 “I have a tight relationship with my uncle Ernie and he is always motivating me,” Rebula said. “He said this would open doors for me and told me to go out there, to have fun and grab the opportunity with both hands. He’s awesome. Just a great human being.” African News Agency