EDINBURG - England's remarkable six-run defeat by Scotland on Sunday was not the first time they have been on the wrong end of a result that has stunned the cricket world. Below AFP Sport looks back at several extraordinary England limited-overs defeats prior to Sunday's loss in Edinburgh. 2009, Lord's, World Twenty20: The Netherlands beat England by four wickets 'The Home of Cricket' has witnessed a number of low points for England but few quite like this. The opening match of the World 2009 Twenty20 saw England held to a total of 162. Tim de Grooth's quickfire 49 off 30 balls kept the Dutch, who hit four sixes compared to England's none, up with the rate. Yet England could have stolen victory right at the end The last delivery of the match saw Netherlands number eight Edgar Schiferli hit the ball straight back to Broad, who missed with a  wild shy at the stumps missed and allowed the Dutch to claim victory on an extra run following the overthrow. 2011, Bangalore, World Cup: Ireland beat England by three wickets Kevin O'Brien hit the fastest-ever World Cup hundred, off just 50 balls, with his overall innings of 113 laying the platform for Ireland -- then a non-Test nation -- to chase down a target of 328 after they had been in dire straits at 111 for five. 2014, Chittagong, World Twenty20: The Netherlands beat England by 45 runs Another Dutch debacle saw it all go horribly wrong for England in Chittagong. Previous results meant they already had no chance of going further in the tournament but, if anything, this was worse than the loss at Lord's as the Dutch played like seasoned professionals and England part-timers. Replying to the Netherlands' 133, Stuart Broad's side collapsed to 88 all out with their 45-run loss a huge margin of defeat in a Twenty20 match. 2015, Adelaide, World Cup: Bangladesh beat England by 15 runs Another miserable World Cup campaign for England saw them knocked out by a Bangladesh side who, up until that point, had been regarded largely as whipping boys for established nations in matches played outside the sub-continent. By the standards of one-day cricket, this was not even an especially close match with England falling short of a seemingly attainable target of 276 after Mahmudullah had scored Bangladesh's first-ever World Cup hundred. AFP