PORT ELIZABETH – In a stunning upset, Adin Masencamp from Strand in Cape Town upstaged top seed, Vasco Ribeiro (Portugal) in round three of the World Surf League (WSL) Qualifying Series (QS) men’s division of the SA Open of Surfing,in Port Elizabeth, on Friday. Masencamp was sitting in third position and with a minute left on the clock the contest seemed to be over for the young Cape Townian but he caught a wave to catapult himself into first place in the heat. Congratulations @AdinMasencamp, taking out the #ZigzagDBNSurfPro pres. by G-Force Men's title! -- WSL/Thurtell pic.twitter.com/v0X1q4xGJS “That heat just was not going my way and I was struggling to get in the right rhythm with the other guys getting the sets, bigger waves and better scores. Suddenly a wave just popped up, so thank you Neptune! A wave just came in those last few seconds when I needed it,” said Masencamp,. Masencamp said he was feeling good and looked forward to the quarterfinals which will be surfed man-on-man. He said he preferred this format and said he would definitely capitalise on any opportunities that came his way. History was made with the biggest women’s QS event on the African continent which started on Friday morning in small, but testing conditions with Championship Tour rider, Silvana Lima form Brazil easily winning her heat to progress to the second round. Newly signed Adin Masencamp took the win at the U/18 WSL Pro. So proud#winning #wsl #ballito #surfer #surf #ISteam pic.twitter.com/dvDOOizGlf “It was hard out there and I’m freezing; it’s really cold out there,” said Lima who surfed in a wetsuit, made for warmer water. In the most spectacular heat of the day, Hawaiian Brisa Hennesy banked the highest wave score of the event so far; an excellent 9.83 which was preceded by an equally impressive 9.00 to make up a total heat score of 18.83. Henessy’s surfing was on another level. With the tide dropping during the heat and consistent good waves, Henessy was in the right place at the right time to pick up a good right hand set wave which she surfed with precision. Clean rail surfing and putting her board in the critical section of the wave with loads of power and control earned her the 9.83. African News Agency