PORT ELIZABETH – Day one of the World Surf League (WSL) Qualifying Series (QS) SA Open of Surfing in Port Elizabeth on Wednesday, belonged to Zoe McDougall (Hawaii) and Luke Slijpen (Cape Town) as they were crowned champions. Champions were crowned in both the pro junior men and women’s divisions to accommodate surfers who had to fly out to Durban for another JQS event the following day. Hot favourite with five City Surf Series (CSS) titles under her belt, Kai Woolf (Jeffreys Bay) had an early exit in the round of eight, being sent home by the on fire Japanese duo of Minami Nonaka and Shino Matsuda. Semi-final number one was an all-Japanese affair with Nonaka, who won at stop five of the CSS and Matsuda squaring off. Both surfers were ripping, surfing with great speed, commitment and flow but halfway through the 20-minute heat, Matsuda landed a sterling 8.33 to take the lead from Nonaka which she managed to hang on to for the remainder of the heat, securing her spot in the final. The second semi-final was decided between Sophie Bell, the lone South African left in the contest, and Hawaiian Zoe McDougall. McDougall was up next, netting a 6.63 and Matsuda now required 7.08 to take the lead with only four minutes on left on the clock. In the end, the task proved impossible for Matsuda and McDougall claimed the title. “It was all about wave selection and staying on my feet because I was so jetlagged today. It was super fun; the waves were fun and I got some good practice for the main event,” said McDougall. The pro junior men’s contest also delivered an early upset when Skull Candy ratings leader, Max Elkington was knocked out by Reunion’s Jolan Bonelli, who won at stop five of the CSS and eventual finalist, Edwardo Motta from Brazil. The second semi-final saw Llundadno’s Luke Slijpen and Germany’s Dylan Groen paddle out. The opening rides of the heat only happened after eight minutes. Slijpen worked his opening wave all the way to the beach for a 4.83 while Groen only managed a short 2.17 point ride. Slijpen’s second wave with just six minutes on the clock was judged at 4.00, leaving Groen with a 6.66 requirement to move into the lead, for which the ocean did not provide opportunity, allowing the South African to advance to the final. In the final, Motta got the first ride, putting a 4.0 on the scoreboard, followed by a strategic spin-to-win to post his second score (4.83) while Slijpen was yet to catch a scoring wave. Slijepen eventually got onto the board with a 4.50 followed by a 5.50 to give him a sliver of a lead. The tight final continued with both surfers on equal 10.00 and only eight minutes to go. A 6.17 banked by Slijpen changed the situation to 11.70 versus 10.00 in the South African’s favour with only six minutes to go. With 90 seconds on the clock and priority with Slijpen, blocking tactics came into play and the South African utilized his priority, preventing the Brazilian from getting another wave. “I’m just so stoked. I tried to do the same for every heat; take the inside. I just tried to stay focused and it worked,” said an elated Slijpen African News Agency