JOHANNESBURG - South Africa’s leading junior Woo-Ju Son was in a class of her own as she made a roaring start in her title defence at the Nomads SA Girls Championship at Orkney Golf Club on Sunday. A year ago, the 17-year-old Country Club Johannesburg golfer claimed one of the most sought-after titles on the local junior circuit with a runaway seven-stroke victory. Her reward was a spot in the starting line-up of the prestigious Duke of York Young Champions at Royal Liverpool Golf Club, but before Son left for Britain, she boosted her silverware haul for 2017 to eight with another triumph in the Southern Cape Open. She has been battlling a wayward driver all day but the putter is sizzling --
		Woo-Ju Son drains this 25-footer for birdie at par-5 14th to move to 4-over in round 2 of the #nomadssagirlsrosebowl #ItStartsHere pic.twitter.com/vchU6acN1D Trophies have proven elusive in 2017, but after seven top-five finishes this season, Son is starting to show signs of the form that saw her dominate the circuit last year. The Gauteng golfer reeled in three birdies on the bounce from the second hole had another brace of gains at nine and 10 to cancel a lone bogey at eight and left her nearest competitors trailing in her wake with a final birdie at 17 for a five-under-par 67. Former Nomads SA Girls Rose Bowl champion Kaiyuree Moodley was the closest to Son’s clubhouse target when she posted a one-under 71 that featured an eagle at the par five 17th. A 3-footer to clinch it and SA number 1 junior Woo-Ju Son sticks it in the hole to win the 2017 Nomads SA Girls Championship at Orkney GC pic.twitter.com/He1bU0oc46 Kiera Floyd from Ekurhuleni and Western Province’s Jordan Rothman – fresh from top-five finishes in the Himbara World Junior Golf Championships in Indonesia – both carded 73s. The pair tied for third with Samantha Whateley from Gauteng and Espirito Trophy-bound Caitlyn Macnab from Ekurhuleni. Catherine Lau from Gauteng North, another former Nomads SA Girls Rose Bowl winner, finished a further stroke back, while Simone Henriques from Gauteng, Mpumalanga’s Nicola Schoeman and Kaylah Williams from Western Province rounded out the top 10 on three-over. Port Shepstone junior Simone Ferreira set the pace in the B-Division. The KwaZulu-Natal golfer fired birdies at 16 and 18 for a 10-over 82 to finish one shot clear of Cameron Seboa from Western Province and Luca Mhlabane from Mpumalanga. Western Province’s Isabella Crafford, making her debut in the biggest junior event of the season, shot 88 to finish in fourth, one shot clear of four players tied for fifth, including Lene Kruger from Limpopo, Free State junior Ellandri van Heerden, Western Province’s Jordan India Pillay and Lelanie Weber from Mpumalanga. A-Division Round 1 Scores (top 20) 67 Woo-Ju Son 71 Kaiyuree Moodley 73 Kiera Floyd; Jordan Rothman; Samantha Whateley; Caitlyn Macnab 74 Catherine Lau 75 Nicola Schoeman; Symone Henriques; Kaylah Williams 76 Annalie Swanepoel; Zane Naude; Kajal Mistry 77 Danielle Bekker 78 Holly Lau 79 Stephanie Barbaglia; Kaylan Boshof; Emily Jones ZIM; Kera Healey; Crystal Beukes B-Division Round 1 Scores (top 10) 82 Simone Ferreira 83 Lucia Mhlabane; Cameron Seboa 86 Isabella Crafford 87 Lene Kruger; Ellandri van Heerden; Jordan India Pillay; Lelanie Weber 88 Chloe Malgas-kelpin 89 Ineke Brynard; Kristen Jakobsen; Rumbi Chisango ZIM; Lerieze De Lange. African News Agency