PARIS – John Galliano set out Friday to redefine 21st-century masculinity with corsets, sensual satins and vinyl trousers to "liberate" men from their sartorial shackles. The British designer's new collection for Maison Margiela at Paris men's fashion week not only blurred the lines between genders, but blew them away with shiny pink ribbon belts and a haute couture decadence that rarely treads the male catwalk. Inspired by genderless fashion boutiques now springing up in London and elsewhere, Galliano put out a podcast to explain how he is plotting to release men from the straitjackets of suits and streetwear. A sneak-peek at @jgalliano thinking behind his first 'Artisanal' Men’s show: the new definitions of masculinity and femininity, his introduction of bias cut to menswear and the sensuality it brings to a tailored suit, and the current regeneration of menswear with new top designers at luxury houses. ‘The Memory of... With John Galliano’ full episode is available on ITunes and Spotify via the link in bio. #maisonmargiela #artisanal #artisanalartistry A post shared by  Maison Margiela (@maisonmargiela) on "I have been questioning myself, and I've been trying to redefine what it means to be masculine today," he said. The designer urged men to learn from women how to feel both classy and comfortable. A judo jacket made from a recycled fully beaded dress was highlighted by turquoise vinyl trousers and a pink vinyl belt in look 29 from our Artisanal Men’s Show designed by @jgalliano. #MaisonMargiela #Artisanal #ArtisanalArtistry A post shared by  Maison Margiela (@maisonmargiela) on The creator, who revolutionised Dior and Givenchy before his fall from grace after a drunken anti-Semitic outburst in 2011, said fine tailoring cut on the bias could be the key to revolutionising men's wardrobes with a new sexier, freer feel. 'Easy as wearing no clothes' "It's mercurial, like liquid to wear," Galliano said. "It's as easy as wearing no clothes. It's that liberating." He said he was struck by its effect when he was doing the fitting with his models. "All my girlfriends have experienced it, but to the young dudes I'm doing the fittings on it's a revelation. It's just so light. The feeling of a waistband or tailoring cutting into you is gone." Galliano (57), who has been at the head of the label created by the highly influential Belgian maverick Martin Margiela since 2014, said sartorial rules may be about to be overturned like social taboos. A recycled kimono Mac is worn with turquoise vinyl trousers and a red patent leather belt as seen on look 15 from our Artisanal Men’s Show designed by @jgalliano. #maisonmargiela #Artisanal #ArtisanalArtistry A post shared by  Maison Margiela (@maisonmargiela) on Look 17 from our Artisanal Men’s Show designed by @jgalliano featured a midnight blue double-breasted herringbone suit worn with a nude silk corset a black patent leather belt and black Santiago boots. #MaisonMargiela #Artisanal #ArtisanalArtistry A post shared by  Maison Margiela (@maisonmargiela) on He said he is surrounded by young people in his studio and "for them, gay marriage is a historical event, the abolition of the ban on abortion in Ireland is history. It's a completely different mindset," he told the podcast, "The Memory of... With John Galliano". With languid satin suits cut loose and worn with nothing underneath and embroidered kimono jumpsuits, Galliano mixed gender-bending David Bowie looks from the 1970s with a more futuristic Japanese vibe. The designer said people's body language changes with clothes cut on the bias. "You feel really relaxed in it... it's very fluid but still smart. Still chic. You don't feel waistbands and you don't feel canvas or a stiffness. It's just like wearing a T-shirt. That's the feeling," he later told Women's Wear Daily. Look 7 from our Artisanal Men’s Show designed by @jgalliano : a check wool bias-cut suit worn under a plumed chiffon top, with gold high Santiago boots. The bias cut transforms traditional bespoke tailoring into a mercurial and hyper-modern take on suit-making. #maisonmargiela #Artisanal #artisanalartistry A post shared by  Maison Margiela (@maisonmargiela) on AFP