JOHANNESBURG - Sunday 3 June marks Cancer Survivors Day globally. On the first Sunday in June, cancer survivors are honoured, with some sharing their reflections on their personal journey of survival. We're spreading the message that there is life after cancer – it is beautiful, it is meaningful, and it is something to celebrate – but we can still do more to lessen the burdens of cancer survivorship. #NCSD2018 https://t.co/PiQTiRu0pV pic.twitter.com/9NwJQHGdRx So today is #CancerSurvivorsDay - nothing makes me happier than to read people’s stories of how they’re now in remission and have beaten their disease. I’m still fighting and forever dreaming about the day I hear the words “all clear”. What an amazing acknowledgment of a day!! it is all about #Leadership in #cancer land during the month of #June to celebrate #cancersurvivorsday as every day is a celebration. I reflect on the many fallen #warriors and salute all my fellow #cancer survivors #Life after #diagnosis #ePatient #hcsm #hcsmSA In South Africa, cancer diagnoses are predicted to increase by 78% over the next 12 years. While the numbers climb, the Gauteng Health Department is disputing claims that it's heading for another disaster in its cancer treatment unit. This follows reports that cancer patients are being sent home from government hospitals due to a lack of resources. IN PICS: SA celebs who fought cancer Hundreds of cancer patients are waiting up to a month to get treatment at the province's state hospitals. Some patients are being sent home because radiation machines at Chartlotte Maxeke and Steve Biko Academic hospitals aren't working. But the department says it's too early to press the panic button. According to Dr Medupi Modisane of the Gauteng Health Department: "We're not heading for a crisis. The workload has definitely increased. We're seeing a lot of patients but crisis is a strong word." It appears the shortage of oncology specialists may be countrywide. READ: KZN making progress in oncology crisis: MEC KwaZulu-Natal (KZN) Health MEC, Sibongiseni Dhlomo is due to face the South African Human Rights Commission (SAHRC) over the lack of meaningful progress in dealing with the oncology crisis in his province. There's just one oncology specialist left in that province. eNCA