PRETORIA –  Democratic Alliance (DA) leader Mmusi Maimane and Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga were reportedly chased away by an angry community in Ga-Rankuwa, north of Pretoria, during what was supposed to be a site visit to a small business and job creation project. News agency ANA reported that police were called to escort the two DA leaders out of the hall as angry residents hurled insults at them. They two men have, however, denied this. Community members claim they are dissatisfied with the service delivery rendered by the DA administration, complaining about the sewerage system that has not been working properly for a number of years. Some residents even came forward with buckets full of faeces to show the mayor what they are forced to endure every day. Today had a great privilege of engaging entrepreneurs in Ga-Rankuwa. This innovation hub focuses on assisting job creators. These are our heroes. Met great businesses in insurance and design. City of Tshwane supports this hub. Our sole focus as a country should be job creation pic.twitter.com/WkT6zqqXHO "We've been pleading with the mayor to come and address our grievance, but no, he comes here to see 25 people out of the entire community... That's not fair, they come to us when they need votes and neglect us as soon as they are elected," resident Mduduzi Mopai said.
	
	Mopai said he has been a staying in a shack in Zone 14 with no electricity and running water for five years and Msimanga has been promising to come and hold a meeting with them to no avail.
	
	"We are not undermining the mayor's visit, but then what else must we do to get his attention. We also need his attention." Msimanga said they had been meaning to come and address residents on their issues but had been blocked every time. READ: Scuffles break out in NMB chamber "You have people who are genuinely saying engage with us but while you are still engaging, there's another group that comes and says we don't want you here," he said.
	
	"How am I supposed to hear the community's concerns and address their concerns when you have people that are willing to ensure you don't come and address them," Msimanga added.
	
	The mayor said he was committed to delivering services and planned to return to the community later in June. Responding to the reports of being chased out of the area, the DA late Tuesday said 20 people disrupted the gathering for about 15 minutes and then left peacefully. The DA claims its leadership completed the visit and stayed right to the end of the scheduled event. (Additional reporting: eNCA.) African News Agency