CAPE TOWN - The Democratic Alliance is in a race to appeal this week’s Western Cape High Court ruling involving Cape Town Mayor, Patricia De Lille. But it’s not De Lille staying in her job that’s got the party worried. The court ruled that the party’s Federal Legal Commission (FLC) was improperly constituted and its findings have been declared null and void. This has implications on years of disciplinary hearings involving DA members, including premiers, mayors, and Members of Parliament (MPs). READ: Western Cape ANC slams DA over water crisis management The FLC deals primarily with disciplinary matters of members and legal issues within in the party and this week, the High Court found that it was illegally constituted, and that party hadn't followed its own rules. "If that judgement does hold up it will have profound consequences for the party,” said Gareth Van Onselen from the Institute for Race Relations. “It means going back all the way to 2011 almost every case the FLC heard will not have been properly constituted and that will have implications for a lot of people's membership and contests with the party. From the George and Knysna mayor to Penny Sparrow." The FLC has made several high profile decisions, including findings on Western Cape Premier Helen Zille, who was found to have contravened the DA's social media policy. READ: Bid to remove ANC Chief Whip Brian Hlongwa fails Most recently, Johannesburg Mayoral Committee Member Rabelani Dagada’s DA membership was terminated following allegations of nepotism. But could they and other current and former DA members have a legal leg to stand on if they decide to challenge the rulings against them? "As a lay legal person I think what you have to do is wait for the Supreme Court of Appeals or at least wait whether the high court grants the right to a leave to appeal to the DA,” Van Onselen said. “There's no point in challenging this judgment until it has gone to the highest court in the land." Both Zille and Dagada have chosen not to comment on the DA’s legal woes, or whether they'll challenge their respective sanctions but the DA has confirmed it’s appealing Wednesday’s judgment in its entirety. eNCA