WAITING FOR VIDEO
	JOHANNESBURG - Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) leader Julius Malema and senior members of his party have attended a church service in Khutsong, on the West Rand, on Sunday to pray for the country's youth. The EFF leadership led by CIC @Julius_S_Malema together with Faith Gospel Church are praying for our country’s youth today in Khutsong. Do join us. pic.twitter.com/ZWRrYfgSlj "The people's bae", Mbuyiseni Ndlozi, got proceedings underway with a song and dance. WATCH: Did The People’s Bae slay on eNCA? Ndlozi in news anchoring debut Dr @MbuyiseniNdlozi leading the praise.
		
		When praises go up, blessings come down
		
		"YiSabatha namhla Nkosi" -- pic.twitter.com/J3PyiZu9KG Malema said he was visiting the church to thank them for their prayers. Malema: We came back to this church to say thank you when it was not fashionable to receive us. The Bishop opened the doors and welcomed us. Malema: We survive because of the prayers of an old women, who comes from the poorest of the poor. They pray for you because they see you someone who can lead South Africa. The church was full to over-flowing. Over flow at the Faith Gospel Church in Khutsong, North West.
		
		"For where two or three are gathered together in My name, I am there in the midst of them." Matthew 18:20 pic.twitter.com/OevuwFtvvz Malema spoke at some length about the youth of 1976 and gave advice to the youth of today. Malema: Had Mandela and his generation listened to the subjective criticisms, we would not be here today. The young people should know that the revolution is the activity of the Youth. #EFF Malema is challenging the youth of Khutsong to be resolute and not be disillusioned there's high unemployment here and service delivery is also unreliable. Malema also spoke about the plight of workers, women, and gender violence. He concluded by saying the EFF would build the congregation a church and set a target of doing it in 2 years' time. #EFF #Malema says look at us we are wearing our attires, we are MPs and we are glowing. We are here to say Pastor we are a family, don't be afraid to ask us people want air conditioned structure not a tent. Malema: We sat down as the leaders of the EFF and decided we would like to assist the church in anyway the Bishop wishes. We are here to help the church. As you can see the difference in me between 2014 and now, I’m glowing because of your prayers. And so we must sow back. #EFF #Malema says we wouldn't bring Arthur Mafokate who beat women & we would construct the church here as a permanent mark and we're kicked out of ANC and took everything, the pastor said come to me, we are saying thank you. Malema: We are giving ourselves two years to assist in the completion of building Faith Gospel Church. eNCA