• Editor's note: This article is updated each time new information becomes available. ADDIS ABABA - An attack during a political rally in Addis Ababa has injured at least 83 people, with six in a critical condition, but no deaths reported, Fitsum Arega, Prime Minister's Abiy Ahmed's chief of staff, said on Twitter on Saturday. Abiy said in a televised address shortly after the explosion that, "a few people ... lost their lives." Girma Kassa, deputy head of Addis Ababa's police commission, told the state-affiliated Fana Broadcasting Corporation that 100 people had been injured in the attack, 15 of them "severely". Abiy had just wrapped up his speech in the heart of Addis Ababa when the explosion went off, sending panicked crowds towards the stage as the prime minister left hurriedly, an AFP correspondent said. He said the blast was orchestrated by groups who wanted to undermine the rally, without elaborating, according to state-affiliated Fana Broadcasting Corporate. "All the casualties are martyrs of love and peace," Abiy was quoted as saying. The cause of the blast was unknown and further details on the casualties were not immediately available. UPDATE: Several killed in explosion at rally for Ethiopia's new leader Police fired tear gas as they moved in to clear Meskel square where the rally was held, the AFP correspondent said. It was Abiy's first public speech in the capital since he took office in April, although he has made several in provincial areas. In the past three months, Abiy has made major changes in Ethiopia including shaking up the security services, releasing jailed dissidents, moving to liberalise the economy and to resolve a two-decade conflict with arch-enemy Eritrea. "Ethiopia will be on top again, and the foundations will be love, unity and inclusivity," he declared on Saturday, dressed in a green T-shirt and a hat. After the blast, dozens of people stormed the stage, hurling various objects at police, shouting: "Woyane down, down," and "Woyane thief", using a pejorative term for the government, the AFP correspondent said. - Additional reporting Reuters AFP