JOHANNESBURG - Riyaad Norodien and Brighton Mhlongo's Orlando Pirates careers have come to an end, while it’s likely former Kaizer Chiefs shot-stopper Brilliant Khuzwayo could be a Buccaneer next season. Norodien, 23, spent the second half of last season on loan at Platinum Stars, where he made a positive contribution with three goals in 10 league games. Mhlongo, who has been with Pirates for six seasons, spent the 2017/18 campaign on loan at Chippa United, although he only played eight league matches.  "Orlando Pirates Football Club has reached an agreement with Cape Town City over the services of midfielder Riyaad Norodien. "Norodien who spent half of the 2017/18 season on loan to Platinum Stars, will now join City on a permanent deal." "Another player on his way out of the club is goalkeeper Brighton Mhlongo. The 27-year old, who was on loan to Chippa United last season, has secured a permanent move to Bidvest Wits." For former Ajax Cape Town winger Norodien, it’s a chance to resurrect his career in his home-town, although he will face competition from Surprise Ralani, Lyle Lakay and Craig Martin for a starting place. DEAL DONE! Orlando Pirates have reached an agreement with Cape Town City over the services of midfielder Riyaad Norodien. So like we reported recently, Norodien returns to the Mother City #FARPost pic.twitter.com/dvFp6qzZzM Mhlongo, meanwhile, seems to have been brought in as a replacement at Bidvest Wits for Moeneeb Josephs, who joined AmaZulu last month. With Darren Keet the number one at the Students, Mhlongo has a battle on his hands to get game-time in Johannesburg. Meanwhile, Khuzwayo's agent Tim Sukazi was quoted earlier this week as claiming that talks are underway with Pirates with regards the Bafana-capped goalkeeper, who left Chiefs at the end of last season after having played only 27 league games in six seasons at Amakhosi following his signing from AmaZulu. Although no official announcement has been made, it's widely understood that Pirates have also signed Zimbabwean winger Kudakwashe Mahachi from Golden Arrows and midfielder Meshack Maphangule from  Black Leopards, who recently won the National First Division promotion-relegation play-offs. The Soweto giants were the most improved team in the Premiership last season after Serbian coach Milutin Sredojevic came in and transformed their fortunes, Bucs ending second in the 2017/18 campaign after an 11th-place finish the season before, a positive points swing of 22 points. African News Agency