CANTEBURY, England – The SA women’s cricket team are intent on making history by winning a bilateral One-Day International (ODI) series against England for the first time when the teams meet in the third and final ICC Women’s Challenge (IWC) match in Canterbury on Friday. The series stands at 1-1 after the hosts levelled the series with a 69-run victory in Hove on Tuesday. WICKET. Du Preez is caught by Elwiss off Ecclestone for 12. SA 214/5 after 39.3 overs, need 118 to win. Marizanne Kapp comes in next. #ENGvSA #AlwaysRising #ProteasWomen pic.twitter.com/eFGH2RxKeJ All-rounder Marizanne Kapp, while disappointed with her side’s previous performance still strongly believes that they are capable of winning the final and clinching the series. “We’re excited (for the final),” said Kapp. “A bit disappointed with our previous performance though. I don’t think we rocked up, but still there are a lot of positives to take out of that game and then obviously our first game. We just have to back ourselves. I mean, we’ve got nothing to lose, England is actually the team that everyone expects to win, so hopefully, we can rock up tomorrow and just play our natural game.” The Port Elizabeth native reckons that winning the series will mean a lot for South Africa as a team and the players individually. It will go a long way in building the team’s confidence, especially when they play against top countries like England and Australia. “I think it will be a big thing for us,” she continued. “It will be yet another move in the right direction. Something like this will just help us get better and better and become more consistent. “Skill-wise we’re up there with anyone in the world, I think sometimes teams like England and Australia just have greater belief, almost like an arrogance that they know they are gonna beat you so if we can start having that same confidence in our own skills and talents and going out and playing with that kind of mindset, I don’t think anyone is going to be able to stop us.” The series, which falls under the IWC forms part of another objective for the visitors, which is a direct qualification for the 2021 ICC Women’s World Cup in New Zealand, for which England are defending champions. African News Agency