JOHANNESBURG - Cricket South Africa (CSA) on Monday named the Standard Bank Proteas squad for the ODI series in Sri Lanka as well as the South Africa A squad for the triangular limited overs series against India A and Australia A on the sub-continent. “Both series are extremely important parts of Vision 2019 as we plan for next year’s ICC World Cup in England and Wales,” commented CSA National Selection Panel (NSP) convener Linda Zondi. “We will be facing extremely tough competition in the tri-series in India with both our opponents set to include quite a lot of seasoned international players. This series will be ideal to broaden our talent pool. “As far as the Proteas squad is concerned we have taken the strategic decision to rest Imran Tahir so that we can get a clearer picture as to who our best second spinner is to back him up at the World Cup,” explained Mr Zondi. “Imran will be our first- choice spinner at the World Cup but, if we play him against Sri Lanka, it is unlikely that we will be able to play both Tabraiz Shamsi and Keshav Maharaj. READ: Sri Lanka captain pleads not guilty to 'sweet in pocket' ball-tampering “By taking this route, we will be able to play the two of them together. Tabraiz has been the outstanding bowler in franchise white ball cricket this past season. Keshav has been outstanding for us in red ball cricket and we need to give him the opportunity to show us what he can do at international level in the ODI format.” There are two new caps in bizhub Highveld Lions batsman Reeza Hendricks and Multiply Titans fast bowler Junior Dala, who have both represented the Proteas in the T20 format. Young bizhub Highveld Lions all-rounder Wiaan Mulder also returns to the squad after missing the previous series against India. The ODI squad will also do duty in the one-off T20 International match against Sri Lanka. READ: Steyn returns for Proteas, three spinners named for Sri Lanka tour In addition to the tri-series squad the selectors have also named the South Africa A squad for the two four-day Test matches against India A. First-time selections at SA A level are Hollywoodbets Dolphins batsman Sarel Erwee, bizhub Highveld Lions batsman Rassie van der Dussen and two young fast bowlers, Mthiwekhaya Nabe of the World Sports Betting Cape Cobras and Anrich Nortje of the Warriors. Chris Morris could not be considered for any of the squads because of injury. Standard Bank Proteas ODI squad: Faf du Plessis (Multiply Titans, capt), Hashim Amla (World Sports Betting Cape Cobras), Junior Dala (Multiply Titans), Quinton de Kock (Multiply Titans), JP Duminy (World Sports Betting Cape Cobras), Reeza Hendricks (bizhub Highveld Lions), Heinrich Klaasen (Multiply Titans), Keshav Maharaj (Hollywoodbets Dolphins), Aiden Markram (Multiply Titans), David Miller (Hollywoodbets Dolphins), Wiaan Mulder (bizhub Highveld Lions), Lungisani Ngidi (Multiply Titans), Andile Phehlukwayo (Hollywoodbets Dolphins), Kagiso Rabada (bizhub Highveld Lions), Tabraiz Shamsi (Multiply Titans). Standard Bank Proteas ODI squad: Faf du Plessis (C), Hashim Amla, Junior Dala, Quinton de Kock, JP Duminy, Reeza Hendricks, Heinrich Klaasen, Keshav Maharaj, Aiden Markram, David Miller, Wiaan Mulder, Lungi Ngidi, Andile Phehlukwayo, Kagiso Rabada, Tabraiz Shamsi. #SRIvSA pic.twitter.com/cDmuhFXNtP South Africa A one-day squad (to play in triangular against Australia A and India A): Khaya Zondo (Hollywoodbets Dolphins, capt), Temba Bavuma (bizhub Highveld Lions), Farhaan Behardien (Multiply Titans), Gihahn Cloete (Warriors), Theunis de Bruyn (Multiply Titans), Robbie Frylinck (Hollywoodbets Dolphins), Beuran Hendricks (bizhub Highveld Lions), Sisanda Magala (Warriors), Pieter Malan (World Sports Betting Cape Cobras), Senuran Muthusamy (Hollywoodbets Dolphins), Dane Paterson (World Sports Betting Cape Cobras), Rudi Second (VKB Knights), Dwaine Pretorius (bizhub Highveld Lions), Tabraiz Shamsi (Multiply Titans), Malusi Siboto (bizhub Highveld Lions). SA A squad (to play in four-day series against India A): Khaya Zondo (Hollywoodbets Dolphins, capt), Sarel Erwee (Hollywoodbets Dolphins), Zubayr Hamza (World Sports Betting Cape Cobras), Beuran Hendricks (bizhub Highveld Lions), Pieter Malan (World Sports Betting Cape Cobras), Senuran Muthusamy (Hollywoodbets Dolphins), Mthiwekhaya Nabe (World Sports Betting Cape Cobras), Anrich Nortje (Warriors), Duanne Olivier (VKB Knights), Dane Piedt (World Sports Betting Cape Cobras), Dwaine Pretorius (bizhub Highveld Lions), Rudi Second (VKB Knights), Rassie van der Dussen (bizhub Highveld Lions), Malusi Siboto (bizhub Highveld Lions), Shaun von Berg (Multiply Titans). African News Agency