GELENDZHIK, Russia – A blonde Iceland midfielder has become a social media sensation, attracting more admirers than the population of Iceland after a cameo role in the 1-1 World Cup draw with Argentina. READ: Messi blows it as Iceland hold Argentina to draw on debut Rurik Gislason came on as a second-half substitute on Saturday to win admirers worldwide purring over his cool Nordic looks. Before the 30-year-old was introduced to help hold Lionel Messi and co at bay, his Instagram account had a respectable 30,000 followers. Very, very exciting times ahead! ⚽️---- A post shared by  Rurik Gislason (@rurikgislason) on By end-Saturday, Gislason's following on the social media website had grown to 250,000, topping a half million by Tuesday, well over the 330,000-strong population of Iceland. "How is it possible to be this cute?" a popular Brazilian actress Gabriela Lopes wondered to her Instagram fans. Rúrik Gíslason officially has more followers than the Iceland nation! #sexyrurik #fyririsland pic.twitter.com/5FWw6ocmX0 On Twitter, the hashtag #sexyrurik has been trending, with many of the posts originating from South America. Lets do this #sexyrurik pic.twitter.com/n7EcLzsRRO An Argentinian travel agency shared his picture after the game to advertise trips to the Nordic island. Chicas hay vuelos a islandia por $30.000...quien viene?
		Fechas y precios acá: https://t.co/qqJyRv55mC pic.twitter.com/RJIw1XMeC7 "Girls, who's in?" it drooled. Gislason, who plays for German second division outfit Sandhausen and has a sideline in clothes modelling, has yet to reply to a request for comment by AFP. First of two preparation games for the FIFA World Cup yesterday! A post shared by  Rurik Gislason (@rurikgislason) on First training in Russia done ✅ A post shared by  Rurik Gislason (@rurikgislason) on Happy to have scored my first goal for my new club and honoured to be on @kicker ‘s team of the week. A post shared by  Rurik Gislason (@rurikgislason) on Training camp ✅ Time to go back home. A post shared by  Rurik Gislason (@rurikgislason) on AFP