SAINT-QUENTIN-EN-YVELINES, France - Swedish youngster Marcus Kinhult will take a two-shot lead into the final round of the French Open after a four-under 67 on Saturday, as Spaniards Sergio Garcia and Jon Rahm surged into contention on the Ryder Cup course at Le Golf National. Marcus Kinhult’s dad was a former pro and now teaches the golf swing.
		
		You can tell... pic.twitter.com/hf0DmhyXku The 21-year-old Kinhult, ranked 183 in the world, maintained his two-stroke overnight advantage ahead of playing partner Chris Wood on 10-under-par for the tournament. "It's going to be nerve-wracking, the first few holes, at least," he admitted. "We'll see. I felt the nerves today for sure. Tomorrow is going to be the same I guess." Former Masters champion Garcia carded the round of the day as he looks to boost his hopes of automatic qualification for September's Ryder Cup, sinking eight birdies in a majestic 64 to reach seven-under and set up a mouthwatering Sunday pairing with world number five Rahm. "We'll see what kind of day we have," said Garcia. "I believe in what I'm doing, and you know, just have as much confidence as possible, like I was doing today." The big-hitting 23-year-old Rahm finished in style with back-to-back birdies, including a curling, downhill 35-footer at the last, and is four shots behind Kinhult. The winner looks likely to come from that leading quartet, although USPGA champion and world number two Justin Thomas is level with fellow American Julian Suri on four-under. Kinhult backed up his stunning second-round 65 with another impressive effort despite a second-hole double-bogey. How @marcuskinhult collects range balls... pic.twitter.com/80qwZmBMZq He saw his lead extended on the 18th as Englishman Wood bogeyed, in an oddly low-key finish to an exciting day, as many French spectators flocked to TV screens to watch their country's dramatic World Cup victory over Argentina. Garcia thrills French crowds It was the round of Garcia which thrilled the crowds early on as he powered up the leaderboard in his first appearance at the tournament, despite his only bogey of the day coming at the 18th after driving into the water. "You come when you come, and I'm very happy to be here now," said the 38-year-old. "Probably I'm more excited to be here this week because of not being before, so I'm enjoying it." A blistering run on the back nine ensured that Garcia would be within touching distance heading into the final day, as he reeled off three straight birdies, capped by a chip-in from off the back of the 16th green. The former Masters champion entered the week outside the automatic Ryder Cup places, but would be expected to make a ninth appearance in the matchplay showdown as a wildcard even if he fails to qualify through the points lists. Garcia wasn't the only big name to head to the Albatros course just outside Paris this week in preparation for the Ryder Cup, with Rahm and Thomas both proving on Saturday why they will be crucial to their respective teams' hopes in three months' time. Marcus Kinhult has become the first player to bogey the first four holes of an event and lead after 36 holes. #HNAOpenDeFrance #RolexSeries pic.twitter.com/nnNi55Mi96 Rahm started the day only three shots adrift of Kinhult, but looked in danger of dropping out of the hunt after missing a short putt to finish a miserable double-bogey on the par-five third. But a fantastic tee shot to 12 feet on the par-four sixth set up a birdie, before a late rally edged him to within striking distance. "After the third hole on the fourth tee box if you tell me I was going to finish three-under-par today, I would have paid whatever I could to finish three-under-par," he smiled. "He (Garcia) had a great round today and to have two Spanish playing together, contending... It's something great for us and for Spanish golf, so hopefully one of us gets a win tomorrow." Former world number one Thomas will lead a strong American contingent when they bid to win the Ryder Cup on European soil for the first time in 25 years. He had to dig deep to salvage a third-round 69, with a brilliant par save on the final green after finding the water. "You never know. You get a good 10, 15, 20-mile-an-hour wind tomorrow and I am more than right there," he said. AFP