JOHANNESBURG – Joint overnight leader Ruan Korb maintained his position at the top of the leaderboard with another solid showing in the sixth IGT Challenge Tour event on Tuesday. The 24-year-old Pretoria rookie produced an opening seven-under 65 to share pole position with Thriston Lawrence and took a two shot lead into the second round at Irene Country Club. A three-under 69 moved Korb to 10-under 134 and he heads into the final round two shots clear of rest of the field. Starting at the tenth, the Silver Lakes golfer produced a trio of pars and a birdie at 12 to move further ahead of the chasing pack. He offset a bogey at 14 with a birdie at 18 and added a further gain at the par four first. “I hit 8-iron into the short hole and made the three-footer for birdie,” said Korb. “I hit a good 2-iron down the 14th fairway and went with a lazy 9-iron for my second, because it was still bitterly cold. But I struck it a bit fat and it came up short. I chipped it up and missed the seven-footer for par. “After a good drive down 18 just short of the green, I recovered with a great chip to five foot and I made the birdie putt. And followed with another birdie at the first to keep the momentum going.” His round hit a speedbump at the third, but Korb rallied with birdie number four at six and finished in fine style with an eagle at the par five ninth. “I pushed my driver left at three and it disappeared into the long grass,” he explained. “We searched for the five minutes, I declared a lost ball, reloaded and hit it left again. This time I found the ball and chopped out, straight into the right greenside bunker. My trap shot lipped out and I had to tap in for six. “After the double, I made two good pars. I hit a great drive down six and finished just short of greenside bunker. But I hit a very poor chip. I had a 25-footer left for birdie, but it dropped. That really gave me a lift. When I got to nine, I told myself I needed to birdie at least one par five. “I smoked my tee shot and had 185 metres left to the flag. I hit 8-iron in and holed the 25 foot putt for eagle. It was great to finish like that with an eagle to take the sting out of the double.” Korb went wire-to-wire in the Ebotse Challenge in September last year. That winning form has kept him in regular contention this season. He holds the number two spot in the 2018/2019 IGT Challenge Tour Money List and ranks second in the Road to the Sunshine Tour on the Big Easy IGT Challenge Tour and he is confident that he can continue to lead from the front. “I played pretty solid despite the double,” said Korb. “I only birdied one par five, but everything in my game was working well. The wind blew a lot stronger and it was trickier out there. It definitely affected the scoring. After the first two days I am feeling confident. I just need to stay focused on my game and trust myself as I have done really well so far.” Fellow Pretoria golfer Paul Boshoff returned a 67 to slip into second on eight-under. Last year’s IGT Challenge Tour Money List winner Ruan Conradie also made a major move. The Sunshine Tour rookie shot a six-under 66 for the low round of the day and joined the five-way tie for fifth on six-under with Lawrence, Dylan Kok, Gary Player School of 2018 member Irvin Mazibuko and amateur Liam Labuschagne. African News Agency