STOCKHOLM, Sweden – The University of Pretoria's hurdles star Rikenette Steenkamp is enjoying the form of her life at the moment - but believes she can go faster. Tuks' Steenkamp dipped under 13 seconds in the 100m hurdles for a second time in less than a week when she competed at the Diamond League meeting in Stockholm on Sunday, clocking 12.99sec. #TuksAthletics: Rikenette Steenkamp crushed the 21 year standing SA record for the 100m Hurdles all the way in Prague last night. 12.91s brought her to a second place finish and a new SA record. Well done Rikenette. More on: https://t.co/sIjhog61FF #StripeGeneration pic.twitter.com/fqniExM6du But she had mixed feelings about the time she ran. “I don’t know what to think. I guess I should be satisfied with a time of 12.99 as it is only the third time officially that I managed to dip under 13 seconds. But after my 12.9 race in Prague, I know that I am capable of running faster times. “Not that I am looking for excuses, but my preparation for Sunday’s race was far from perfect. I got flu after my 12.91 race. It meant that I could not train for two days. During our race, there were some technical difficulties. We were called up for a restart three times.” As in Prague, it was the former junior world champion, Elvira Herman (Belarus), who outsprinted her. Herman’s winning time in the national race was 12.74. Rikenette Steenkamp (Tuks) set a SA record on Monday evening at the Memorial Josefa Odlozila Meeting in Prague, Czech Republic, where she ran 12.91 seconds in the 100m-hurdles. Steenkamp bettered the 21-year-old SA record of 12.94 belonging to Corien Botha @AfriNewsAgency pic.twitter.com/xkWeHZMghy Although it was not part of the official Diamond League meeting Steenkamp said it was exciting to compete as she got an idea of what the League is all about. Steenkamp’s next race is on June 23 when she will be competing at Kuortane Games in Finland. She is under no illusions as to the challenge that awaits her. “I have to improve by about 0.20 if I truly want to be competitive in international races,” said the athlete whose best time of 12.91 only ranks her 35th on the IAAF-list. African News Agency