JOHANNESBURG - Kaizer Chiefs on Friday confirmed the players who will depart the club before the start of the upcoming season. “As stated previously, we are releasing a number of players,” Kaizer Chiefs Football manager Bobby Motaung confirmed on the club's website. “Of course, there is Brilliant Khuzwayo, who signed with Orlando Pirates after his Chiefs contract expired at the end of last season. Tsepo Masilela’s contract will not be renewed.” READ: Orlando Pirates net nine new signings Goalkeeper Khuzwayo and full-back Masilela both served six years at Naturena-based outfit, and contributed towards two league titles and two cup trophies. The club is also parting ways with midfielders William Twala, who was on loan at Maritzburg United for the last six months. Edmore Chirambadare and Keagan Buchanan as well as full-back Sibusiso Khumalo will also depart. Twala, Chirambadare, Buchanan and Khumalo all joined Amakhosi in 2016. Player Updates
		
		Kaizer Chiefs would like to confirm that we have parted ways with Keagan Buchanan. We wish him all the best in his future endeavours.
		
		More info: https://t.co/ektYRGBARu#KCOneTeam pic.twitter.com/vmjByS7jnD Player Updates
		
		Kaizer Chiefs would like to confirm that we have parted ways with Tsepo Masilela. We wish him all the best in his future endeavours.
		
		More info: https://t.co/c2TRgGoKA1.#KCOneTeam pic.twitter.com/l9HJlUedZ2 Player Updates
		
		Kaizer Chiefs would like to confirm that we have parted ways with Sibusiso Khumalo. We wish him all the best in his future endeavours.
		
		More info: https://t.co/c2TRgGoKA1.#KCOneTeam pic.twitter.com/VCTL1anJQs Player Updates
		
		Kaizer Chiefs would like to confirm that we have parted ways with Edmore Chirambadare. We wish him all the best in his future endeavours.
		
		More info: https://t.co/c2TRgGoKA1.#KCOneTeam pic.twitter.com/lxRSTi1ASt Player Updates:
		
		Kaizer Chiefs would like to confirm that we have parted ways with William Twala. We wish him all the best in his future endeavours.
		
		More info: https://t.co/c2TRgGoKA1.#KCOneTeam pic.twitter.com/BurheGTmSI “We are terminating the contracts of Twala, Buchanan, Chirambadare and Khumalo,” reveals Motaung. “These players are immensely talented, but couldn’t find their form with us. We do not want to keep a good player inactive and that’s why we will allow them to express their talents elsewhere.” Motaung also disclosed that “discussions are underway to send Emmanuel Letlotlo on loan. We will reveal the details as soon as the deal is finalised.” “Furthermore,” he said in conclusion, “we are in the process of acquiring a new coach and working on bolstering the squad with new signings. It will be just a matter of time before we will make further announcements. “We are aware of the anticipation from our stakeholders, considering that we have not seen much success recently. We are working around the clock to find the right coach and players to sign. We are left with about two weeks before the start of pre-season training and will try to finalise most of these movements before that.” eNCA