JOHANNESBURG - Dale Steyn, aka Phalaborwa Express, will make his long-awaited return to the Standard Bank Proteas Test squad for the two-match series to be played against Sri Lanka next month. The 15-player squad also sees the return of Multiply Titans wrist spinner, Tabraiz Shamsi, whose only previous Test was the pink ball match against Australia at the Adelaide Oval in 2016, and the first-time inclusion of the uncapped Multiply Titans leg-spinner, Shaun von Berg. WATCH: ‘Tired’ AB de Villiers retires from international cricket “It is very welcome news to have Dale back in our pack of world-class seamers,” commented Cricket South Africa (CSA) National Selection Panel (NSC) convener Linda Zondi, “particularly in view of the retirement of Morne Morkel. “Kagiso Rabada has also made a complete recovery from the injury concerns he had at the end of the Australia Test Series. “A key factor in our selection process was to cover all our bases and all possible conditions that we may encounter in Sri Lanka. The two additional spinners to back up Keshav Maharaj have both had excellent records in recent times in our domestic cricket. Von Berg also gives us additional batting strength in the lower order. READ: Rabada and Van Niekerk honoured with CSA's top awards “Heinrich Klaasen is the other uncapped player although he has been part of our squad for some time. He provides wicketkeeping cover for Quinton de Kock and is also a contender for a specialist batting position.” Standard Bank Proteas Test squad: Faf du Plessis (Multiply Titans, capt), Hashim Amla (WSB Cape Cobras), Temba Bavuma (WSB Cape Cobras), Quinton de Kock (Multiply Titans), Theunis de Bruyn (Multiply Titans), Dean Elgar (Multiply Titans), Heinrich Klaasen (Multiply Titans), Keshav Maharaj (Hollywoodbets Dolphins), Aiden Markram (Multiply Titans), Lungisani Ngidi (Multiply Titans), Vernon Philander (WSB Cape Cobras), Kagiso Rabada (bizhub Highveld Lions), Tabraiz Shamsi (Multiply Titans), Dale Steyn (Multiply Titans), Shaun von Berg (Multiply Titans). Proteas' tour programme: July 4: SA arrive in Sri Lanka July 7-8: Two-day practice match, P Sara Stadium, Colombo July 12-16: 1st Test match, Galle July 20-24: 2nd Test match, Colombo July 26: One-day warm-up match July 29: 1st ODI, Dambulla (Day match) August 1: 2nd ODI, Dambulla (D/N) August 5: 3rd ODI, Kandy (day match) August 8: 4th ODI, Kandy (D/N) August 12: 5th ODI, Colombo (D/N) August 14: T20 International, Colombo (D/N) African News Agency