Craving a weekend binge of the boxset of Friends, or finally starting that HBO series from the very beginning that you never managed to catch on DStv? Showmax has you sorted, with unlimited streaming entertainment at your fingertips. And the good news for you as a DStv subscriber is that you get huge savings on the subscription price, which is usually R99 per month. DStv Premium subscribers: you get Showmax included with the cost of your subscription, so you pay absolutely nothing extra. That’s right - you get full, unlimited access to the Showmax catalogue for zero added cost. And DStv Compact and Compact Plus subscribers now save R50 per month, paying only R49 for a full Showmax subscription. All you have to do to cash in on these deals if you’re a DStv subscriber is add Showmax to your monthly DStv account. What do I need to stream content on Showmax? Do I need a DStv Explora to enjoy Showmax as a DStv customer? No, you can watch Showmax on any internet-connected device, from your phone to the web browser on your PC - and if you use the Showmax app for smartphones and tablets, you can even download series episodes or movies to watch offline later. But if you do have a connected Explora, press the blue DStv button on your remote, click Watch Now and select Showmax to start watching. Find out more here » I’m already a Showmax subscriber: how do I add Showmax to my DStv account? If you already have a credit or cheque card or a Paypal subscription, all you need to do is login to your Showmax account and change the payment method to “DStv add to account”. 1. Login to Showmax.
	2. Refer to Manage Account and click on Manage Subscription.
	3. Select “DStv add to account” as your form of payment.
	4. Enter your South African Identification Document number.
	5. Confirm your mobile phone number.
	6. A one-time pin (OTP) will be SMSed to this number confirmed to verify your account.
	7. Enter in the OTP and accept the terms and conditions.
	8. You are able to watch Showmax on up to 5 devices! I’m not a Showmax subscriber yet: how do I add Showmax to my DStv account? You would need to sign up for a Showmax subscription and then select “DStv add to account” as your payment method. 1. Go to Showmax.
	2. Create a Showmax account with your email address.
	3. Create a password.
	4. Choose “DStv add to account” as your payment method.
	5. Enter your South African ID number.
	6. Confirm your mobile phone number.
	7. A one-time pin (OTP) will be SMSed to this number to verify your account.
	8. Enter in the OTP and accept the Ts and Cs.
	9. Start watching your favourite shows through your connected Explora, on the Showmax app on phones and tablets or on your browser on a PC or laptop. What if I’ve already added my Showmax account to another partner’s bill? In order to change your payment from one of Showmax’s partners (e.g. your bank or cellphone network) you will need to contact the company that is billing you and cancel your subscription. 1. Contact the company that is billing you for Showmax and cancel your Showmax payment on their side.
	2. Once this has been cancelled, you should be able to see the full list of payment options on the Showmax website.
	3. Choose “DStv add to account” to add Showmax to your DStv bill.
	4. Enter your South African ID number.
	5. Confirm your mobile phone number.
	6. A one-time pin (OTP) will be SMSed to this number to verify your account. It is as simple as that. DStv Premium subscribers pay nothing extra, and DStv Compact and Compact Plus subscribers pay just R49 per month for unlimited access to over 35 000 of the best series episodes, movies, kids’ shows and documentaries, with more added every week. For more on how to watch Showmax as a DStv subscriber, read this. What is there to watch on Showmax? Choose from the best of HBO including Game of Thrones and Westworld to incredible shows you won’t find anywhere else like Marvel’s Runaways, The Crossing, HBO’s the Deuce and Younger. Showmax has a great mix of new and classic shows like Friends, Sex and the City and Grey’s Anatomy, plus a huge selection of proudly South African shows and movies, including the Showmax Original Tali’s Wedding Diary and the Comedy Central Roast of Somizi. Don’t miss out on this great opportunity to get much much more for even less with Showmax. Sign up here.