CAPE TOWN - Police in the Khayelitsha policing cluster in Cape Town have arrested more than 220 people for various crimes during police operations this week, Western Cape police said on Saturday. Some of the arrests included two suspects, one of whom was a 16-year-old, for the possession of illegal firearms in two separate cases reported at Lingelethu West and Strand, police spokesperson FC van Wyk said. On Monday, 28 May, just after 11:30am, "a fight occurred in the Strand area during which an eyewitness intervened and a 19-year-old man from Cassablanca turned around and threatened the eyewitness with a firearm". A case of pointing of a firearm was registered and the suspect was charged on Tuesday, he said. READ: Crime in SA will soon be reduced: Cele On Thursday, just before 2pm, a 25-year-old woman was robbed by six men wearing school uniforms. "One of the suspects, a 16-year-old juvenile, pointed a firearm at the complainant and demanded her personal belongings. The complainant, who was on her way to get a taxi in Mew Way road, handed over her belongings. The 16-year-old was arrested and charged the same day at [10pm]. A case of robbery with a firearm is under investigation," van Wyk said. In an unrelated incident, a 28-year-old man from Harare in Khayelitsha was arrested for attempted arson after "pouring petrol next to his girlfriend’s house and car". "On Monday, just after [8:30pm], an argument between the couple led to the suspect leaving the address and returning with five litres of petrol. The suspect was prevented by a family member from setting the property on fire. A case was registered and the suspect was arrested and charged on Tuesday." A police vehicle control point (VCP) set up at 12.30pm on Tuesday led to the arrest of two suspects in possession of stolen cables. The two men, aged 32 and 39, were stopped at the VCP and police searched their vehicle, a silver Opel Astra. READ: Gauteng hit by 96 cash-in-transit heists in 9 months "Two bunches of copper cable, illegally owned by them, were found inside the vehicle and both men were arrested," van Wyk added. Another five men, aged 19, 20, 23, 26, and 27, were arrested on Tuesday, just after 1:12am when police found them digging for cables in the Lansdowne Road area in Khayelitsha. "The group of men noticed the police and fled the scene, whereafter, five of them were apprehended. The men were still in possession of the copper cables when arrested." On Wednesday, May 30, just after 11pm, a 23-year-old man was also arrested for being in possession of a "bag filled with copper cables". He faced charges of "tampering and damaging essential infrastructure", Van Wyk said. WATCH: Crime victim turns tables on suspects In an operation to quell minibus taxi violence in Khayelitsha, two licensed firearms were confiscated and five taxis were impounded. Fines were issued to the value of R262,000 and 185 people and 152 vehicles were searched. In other operations focusing on drug possession, 54 people were arrested and 15 dangerous weapons were confiscated, Van Wyk said. African News Agency