MOSCOW – A daunting task faces a dejected Russian team that will kick off its World Cup campaign as hosts trying to avert the 2010 World Cup prospect endured by South Africans. South Africa hosted a successful World Cup eight years ago, but home spectators had to find other teams to support following Bafana’s spectacular crash just three games into the tournament, becoming the first ever host nation to exit the tournament in the first round. The question confronting Russian football fans ahead of the World Cup is whether the host nation's team can actually get any worse. On Tuesday, Russia extended their winless streak with a 1-1 home draw against Turkey. It meant Stanislav Cherchesov's side have failed to chalk up a single victory in eight months. Cherchesov, a former Russian international goalkeeper, has five wins, six draws and nine defeats since taking over in August 2016, but his recent record is even less impressive. Another woeful performance by Russia ----. Now, a home 1-1 draw against Turkey B team.
		The World Cup hosts have produced just 1 shot on goal in the last two friendlies (0 v Austria, 1 v Turkey).
		Players were booed off the pitch after the final whistle. Tuesday's draw meant he is the first Russia manager to fail to win in seven consecutive games. Cherchesov insists that gaining experience ahead of the World Cup, which Russia opens against Saudi Arabia in Moscow on 14 June, was more important than the results. "Russia will perform well," he insisted at the news conference after the match with Turkey. "You will see the 'ideal' Russian team on 14 June ." Russian media and fans do not share his confidence. "Everything's bad," declared the front page of Wednesday's Sport Express daily, which said the national side's play had dampened the mood of fans in the country. "With such a performance from our national team our chances look pretty low," school teacher Daniil Pospelov, who watched the Turkey match from a Moscow pub, told AFP. "We need to learn how to attack constructively to get a result regardless of whether the opponents make mistakes or not." Have never seen anything like it.
		Russia with an awful game in the last friendly ahead of the World Cup (1-1 v Turkey reserves).
		3 minutes of injury time.
		With the clock at 92:50 (!!!) Stanislav Cherchesov makes a substitution. Kuzyaev enters, and the final whistle is heard. Why? However, Vitaly Mutko, who was once the head of Russian Football Union but temporarily stepped down after he was linked to state-sponsored doping programmes, was not disturbed by the result. "It's not a problem that the squad haven't won a single match within a year," Sport Express quoted Mutko as saying. "Don't forget who the opponents have been -- Argentina, Spain, Brazil, France. "I believe our team is moving in the right direction," he added. Meanwhile, Cherchesov, a brusque and stubborn man known as a tough disciplinarian, also managed to find some positives in his team's performance compared to their previous friendly last week, a 1-0 defeat to Austria. READ: World Cup: Full squads for all 32 teams in Russia "I think we've made a qualitative leap ahead by comparison to the match with Austria," he said. However, the attempts to put a brave face on a sorry business angered many former Russian internationals. "I don't grieve for Cherchesov and his plans," former Manchester United star and Russian international Andrei Kanchelskis told Sport Express. "For me, his ideas are ridiculous and unreal. I'm worried about our footballers. I just cannot grieve for the ridiculous coaching team that destroys our football." AFP