PRETORIA - With Khama Billiat gone, and Percy Tau seemingly on the way out, Mamelodi Sundowns have gone abroad to boost their firepower with the signing of Venezuelan striker Jose Ali Meza. Let’s Welcome Venezuelan star José Alí Meza to the Brazilian family Masandawana!#Sundowns #WelcomeAli pic.twitter.com/1Fur9IAP0S Billiat jumped ship for Kaizer Chiefs last week, while Tau is pushing for a move to Europe and has not yet reported for pre-season. The Tshwane side have known for some time that the two attackers would be likely to leave and already boosted their forward options back in January with the signing of Jeremy Brockie, Aubrey Ngoma and Gaston Sirino. Now they've confirmed the arrival of another South American forward, who like Sirino, last played his football in Bolivia. Time to get excited Masandawana, here are some of Ali Meza’s best moments! #Sundowns #WelcomeAli pic.twitter.com/0lIE5eVKY9 "Let's welcome Venezuelan star Jose Ali Meza to the Brazilian family Masandawana,” Sundowns stated on Twitter. The 2016 African champions have already made two other acquisitions for next season in Bafana Bafana and former Orlando Pirates midfield general Andile Jali, and Toni Silva, a Guinea-Bissau international forward who was raised in Portugal and who has extensive experience across Europe, albeit it mainly in the smaller leagues.  Meza will join Sirino and Ricardo Nascimento as Sundowns' three South Americans at the club, although his arrival could mean the departure of another foreign-based player. The 27-year-old Meza has been based at the Bolivian top flight club Oriente Petrolero for the past two years and scored 32 goals in 65 league matches. READ: Downs playing hard-ball over Tau's dream European move Reports out of South America suggest Masandawana paid around R13 million for his services. Tau meanwhile has been heavily linked with English Premiership side Brighton over the past couple of weeks. But with Sundowns seemingly not happy with the offer they've received, the deal is stalling and the Bafana international has reportedly been absent this week from the league champions’ pre-season training camp in Rustenburg. African News Agency