JOHANNESBURG - The process of Kaizer Chiefs announcing a new coach is getting complicated. Since the resignation of former coach Steve Komphela two months ago, it seems the club is still far from getting their new man. eNCA spoke to Amakhosi manager Bobby Motaung at the launch of pre-season friendly, the Shell Helix Ultra Cup at FNB Stadium on Monday. READ: Kaizer Chiefs confirm player exits According to Kaizer Chiefs Football manager Bobby Motaung, the club will announce their new coach soon, but the delay is due to their main candidates being snapped up elsewhere. French coach Patrice Carteron was reportedly the main target, but he has recently joined Egyptian giants Al Ahly. Former Chelsea and Ghana mentor Avram Grant was also on Amakhosi’s shopping list but he is considering joining a Greek club instead. READ: Safa shoots down Baxter speculation Motaung said top level coaches are not easy to grab. "We actually brought in some quality coaches, unfortunately, the competition is stiff three of the coaches we have interviewed have been snatched we have got one or two more coaches we are finalising with hopefully soon once the preseason starts we want to have our coach.” READ: Chiefs sign three new players including Billiat Motaung has refuted the previous links to Free State Stars coach Luc Eymael and Bafana Bafana coach Stuart Baxter. Despite Baxter’s previous success with Amakhosi, he is off limits due to his contract with the national team until 2022. “Luc Eymael, we have never spoken to him I must be clear, Stuart has been linked with us he’s a high-quality coach high-level coach if he’s available I would love to have him definitely back with the team as people know that he is a high-level coach and he understands the squad he will be hitting the ground running if it happens but unfortunately he is with Safa now he is a Safa coach", Motaung added. Kaizer Chiefs will play their first official pre-season match against Mamelodi Sundowns in the Shell Cup on 21 July and are expected to have their new man by then. eNCA