SPONSORED JOHANNESBURG - The world’s attention will be fixed on the top teams from around the globe this year as football favourites make their way to Russia for the 2018 Fifa World Cup. What’s will be even more exciting to watch are the five teams representing Africa and the magic they’ll be bringing to the field. Building the World Cup fever is online sports betting spot, Betway, with the best betting odds to play on your favourite teams. Egypt’s Pharoahs are back in the World Cup for the first time since 1990 and are thought to be in one of the easier groups, facing hosts Russia, Saudi Arabia and Uruguay. Their chances of beating any of these teams look good but the big test will come if they face off against the Portuguese or Spanish giants. A favourite to advance in this year’s group stages is Nigeria’s Super Eagles. Strengthened by some of the top players in the industry like Ahmed Musa and Kelechi Iheanacho in its attack, and Victor Moses and John Obi Mikel in its midfield, Nigeria is definitely the team to watch who will be surprising spectators like never before. The Golden Eagles offer odds of 1:200 when you play at Betway on your mobile device. Led by the experienced French coach Hervé Renard, the Moroccan squad are looking to prove their excellence after years of absence in the World Cup. Having beat their Ivory Coast and Gabon apponents in the qualifiers, the Moroccan team are sure to bring the element of surprise if they kick through the group stages to advance further than their previous World Cup history. Senegal came through guns blazing to qualify this year, when they defeated former World Cup hosts, South Africa’s Bafana Bafana. Betway offers the highest odds with 1:150, which doesn’t come as a shock since the Senegalese will kick off with their Liverpool star player, Sadio Mané, as forward. Heading to the most prestigeous football event of the year is Tunisia, having advanced undefeated through their qualifying stages. Though possibly considered an underdog in the tournament and facing a heavy group stage against England, Belgium and Panama, Tunisia may still give fans a fantastic show, proving Africa’s vast talent and football experience. Betting on your favourite African team is easy and with the best betting odds at Betway, you’re sure to get all the buck for your bet. The mobile app is designed to offer a realistic experience with excellent graphics and lag-free gaming. This means hassle-free betting anywhere, anytime. Even more, you can play in any currency and make deposits using secure banking methods like i-Pay or Mpesa, or any major debit/credit facility right on your mobile device. Betway’s live ticker ensures you get all the latest scores and results in real time so you never miss out on the football action. Kick off your World Cup season with great wins and a thrilling experience and watch your favourite African soccer squad make history at another life-changing event.