JOHANNESBURG - International Relations Minister Lindiwe Sisulu is appealing to the international community not to panic over the planned changes to land reform policy. She says all stakeholders must respect parliamentary processes. International Relations and Cooperation Minister Lindiwe Sisulu has noted a number of international organizations & individuals commenting on the parliamentary processes in South Africa in relation to land distribution.There is no need to panic or be alarmist. #LandExpropriation "The international community played an important role in the fight against apartheid and all its repressive and discriminatory policies. We invite members of the international community to continue supporting our efforts to reverse the legacy of apartheid"," Sisulu said in a statement. The National Assembly passed a motion to review a section of the Constitution to allow for land expropriation without compensation. EXCLUSIVE: Nene on land expropriation, the 'Cyril effect' Just days afterwards, a member of the European Parliament asked Britain's Foreign Secretary, Janice Atkinson, to get involved. She called EFF leader Julius Malema a dangerous individual, who encourages farm terror and murder. Euuugh. It appears UKIP European Parliament MP Janice Atkinson has written to Boris Johnson over SA's land expropriation without compensation talks, and called @Julius_S_Malema a MARXIST. Have the Brits not learned from history? Their meddling has caused great trouble in SA?  pic.twitter.com/EpHLU5ilNd At a rally on Sunday, Malema repeated his party's commitment to the return of land to black people. #RegisterToVoteEFF Malema : Land was taken from Black people to White people, no one left. When we talk about the land, we talk about the black pain. Malema says the pain of the past has not been healed, we want to give land to our people, it's going to happen in our lifetime and people will have land for farming, mining, recreation and our people will be rightful owners. #RegisterToVoteEFF Sisulu said that President Cyril Ramaphosa remains committed to engage all stakeholders. eNCA