DURBAN - The Sunwolves never gave up, but the Sharks scored four second-half tries to claim a 50-22 Super Rugby bonus-point victory over the Sunwolves at Kings Park on Saturday. The Sharks were not at any point in any real danger of losing the match as their superior forwards and lightning-fast backs had too much firepower for the Japanese outfit. But they did temporarily threaten to deny the hosts a bonus point when wing Lomano Lemeki scored soon after halft-ime and enjoyed some good passages of play. The Sharks were on top from the start though as an early Robert du Preez penalty was followed by the opening try from lethal left wing Makazole Mapimpi. Tendai Mtawarira was prominent in the build-up before Du Preez floated a pass to an unmarked Mapimpi in the ninth minute. The Sunwolves nearly scored twice soon after that with centre Sione Teaupa knocking-on in the in-goal area after he charged-down Bosch’s clearing kick, while former Cheetahs loose forward Willie Britz was held up over the line a few minutes later. And even though flyhalf Harumichi Tatekawa got his team on to the board with a penalty, the Sharks pounced again as hooker Akker van der Merwe picked up a loose ball and shrugged off two Sunwolves defenders to dot down. The Sharks weren’t done yet in the first half and arguably the try of the game came from a scrum as hard-working centre André Esterhuizen hit a half-gap and offloaded to flank Wian Vosloo, who found Lukhanyo Am on the outside and the No 13 put No 8 Tera Mtembu over under the posts. The Sunwolves came out with greater purpose in the second half and after Tatekawa was denied a five-pointer due to obstruction, Lemeki finished off from Kotaro Matsushima’s pass to make it 29-8. The home team then put their foot down with Mapimpi, Jacques Vermeulen, and Sbu Nkosi scoring, while Wimpie van der Walt pulled one back for the Sunwolves. Reserve scrumhalf Cameron Wright brought up the half-century for the Sharks after his opposite number Yutaka Nagare fumbled the ball on his own line as the Sunwolves scrum came under pressure.  African News Agency