GLASGOW - Celtic manager Brendan Rodgers said Odsonne Edouard was a "young player I rate very highly" after the substitute played a key role in the Hoops' 3-0 Scottish Cup quarter-final win over Morton on Saturday. And Rodgers added the 20-year-old striker, on loan from French giants Paris Saint-Germain, could have played himself into contention for the upcoming Old Firm derby against arch-rivals Rangers in this form. Championship club Morton, to their credit, kept the score goalless in the first half at Parkhead. But Rodgers brought on Edouard at half-time in place of Scott Sinclair to form an all-French front two with Moussa Dembele. Cup-holders Celtic increased the pace of the game, Dembele scoring twice including a disputed penalty before Edouard struck his seventh goal of the season in the last minute. "I thought he was very good," Rodgers said of Edouard. "He is a young player I rate very highly. "He can play in a number of positions. He has strength, power, he threatens in behind... he is quick but he can link the game as well." The Northern Irishman added: "I felt as though those two occupied their back four really well because they are both quick and Odsonne really wants to really run in behind. "He had two really good chances before he actually scored the goal so it is something that I can consider. "I have an idea what we want to do if everyone is fit next week, but certainly for today's game he provided the spark needed and I thought he was excellent when he came on." Meanwhile Morton boss Jim Duffy was proud of his second-tier side's performance, saying: "When you come here you don't want to hand victory to Celtic and we didn't. But class told in the end." Aberdeen, last season's losing finalists, must do it all again after a 1-1 draw at home to Kilmarnock set up a replay at Rugby Park. Abderdeen captain Graeme Shinnie gave the hosts an early lead at Pittodrie but Kilmarnock's Kris Boyd equalised from the penalty spot. "It's frustrating because we got ourselves in a winning position, and I thought we were the better team in the first half and had a couple of opportunities," said Aberdeen manager Derek McInnes. AFP