JOHANNESBURG - Consumers were resilient in the first month of 2018, despite low levels of confidence. The retail sector, whose performance surprised analysts over the past few months, eased to 3.1 percent year-on-year in January 2018 at constant prices, from a downwardly revised 5.1 percent in December. South African retail trade sales increased by 3,1% y/y in January 2018. The highest growth rate was recorded for retailers specialising in household furniture and appliances #StatsSA https://t.co/PhcWGO8Lbd pic.twitter.com/mES19NJeWM Figures from Statistics South Africa show the main contributors behind the January increase were retailers in textiles, clothing, footwear and leather goods. The highest annual growth rates in January was 9.2 percent, recorded for retailers in household furniture, appliances and equipment. READ: Will South Africa escape Moody's blues on Friday On a month-on-month basis, retail sales were down 1.6 percent seasonally adjusted. In the three months to January this year, retail sales increased by 5.4 percent compared with the same period last year Salaries also grew two percent above inflation. Consumer Price Inflation, at four percent, is well within the reserve bank’s target range. It has given renewed hopes for a cut of 25 basis point in interest rates. READ: SA smartphone unit sales soar in 2017 Absa economist Miyelani Maluleke says growth in the retail sector is surprising, given the weak credit cycle and a challenging labour market. “What the data certainly suggests is that there are pockets of the consumer that are remaining very resilient. We expect that you will probably see more of that still in 2018 particularly if you do get a rebound in sentiment, but I think it will be weighed on a little bit by the tax increases announced in the budget.” South Africa’s economy is largely driven by consumer spending. The retail sector figures, therefore, may give some level of guidance of where the economy may be heading in the coming quarters. eNCA