JOHANNESBURG - Joburg mayor Herman Mashaba on Friday threatened to take legal action against the African National Congress (ANC) in the City for allegedly "peddling lies" about him, saying that he will take the party to court if it does not make a public apology in a week. The ANC in the Joburg Region on Thursday presented a memorandum to Public Protector Busisiswe Mkhwebane asking her to investigate alleged mismanagement and maladministration in the City of Johannesburg, and irregular appointments, purging of employees, irregular salary increases, and conflicts of interest. Mashaba said that the ANC Joburg's allegations were without foundation and that he was prepared to take the matter to open court. "Today, my personal legal team will write to the ANC demanding that they issue a public apology for the lies they peddled outside the Office of the Public Protector yesterday," Mashaba said. "In the event that the ANC do not hold a press conference within the next seven days to issue a public apology, legal action will be instituted against them." The ANC in Joburg claimed that since the DA-led administration took office a number of irregular appointments had taken place, including the appointment of David Tembe as chief of Johannesburg Metro Police Department. On irregular salary increases, the ANC said that chief of staff, Michael Beaumont's salary was irregularly increased with Mashaba's full knowledge and consent. The ANC also said that Mashaba partook in awarding a lucrative multi-million tender to undertake forensic investigations to a company in which his wife has a stake. But Mashaba said that the allegations levelled against his wife and the involvement of her company were absurd. "I have submitted, in my disclosures, all interests that I hold and have done so openly with the Integrity Commissioner. In the latter half of 2017, the ANC took the City to court and lost with costs. To date, these costs have not been paid," Mashaba said. "I would caution the ANC in Johannesburg, I am personally very willing to continue paying personally for my legal teams to keep taking the ANC to court in order to continue exposing their lies. "Ultimately, they must decide if they are willing to continue paying the costs awarded by the courts for their dishonesty." African News Agency