MODDERFONTEIN – Teddy Mathebula says composure and a bit of confidence were key to his opening round two-under-par 70 of the Vusi Ngubeni Stroke Play on Tuesday at Modderfontein Golf Club. He started on the 10th and made a birdie there before making three consecutive pars. His last five holes on that nine seemed to give him problems as he picked up three bogeys and a pair of pars to turn in 38. “It is tough out there, like any other competition, really,” Mathebula said after his round, “but after the turn there, I was a lot more composed. I began feeling confident, especially after the birdie I made on 10 (hole number one).” It was a tough opening round to this year's Vusi Ngubeni Stroke Play @ModderGolfClub with low scores difficult to come by.
		
		Teddy Mathebula's 70 was enough to lead after round one.
		
		Scores: https://t.co/DFyWUhKZrU
		Read the wrap here: https://t.co/hsbdZ8EBnr pic.twitter.com/wLLapyln6d After that birdie on the first hole, his 10th, Mathebula pulled off another birdie on the following hole. His next birdie was on the fourth hole, his 13th, and after four straight pars, he made another birdie on the last hole. “I am happy with how I started but I had some bad luck on my front nine to drop unnecessary shots,” he said. “The back nine, which is the front nine of the course was better because I played four-under there and my putter was working well today.” Mathebula might rue the chances he failed to take on that front nine of his round because lurking closely and dangerously behind him was a group of eight players which included Heinrich Bruiners, after they all carded one-under 71. Like Mathebula, Bruiners’ three bogeys came to haunt him, especially on the back nine. He made three birdies and a single bogey on the front, and while his dropped shot on the 18th would have done little to derail his round, it was the double bogey he made on the par-four 15th that caused him a lot of damage. Terence Mogapi, Jabulane Mabilane, Allister de Kock, Irvin Mazibuko, Altaaf Bux, Zwelakhe Dube and amateur Fezekile Kana were among those who shot a 71. Sharing the 10th spot after round one was amateur Franklin Manchest, Gitesh Maharaj and Teboho Sefatsa while last year’s winner Sipho Bujela tied for 13th with Dwayne Basson, Jason Diab, Adriel Poonan and amateur Letsoso Letsai after a one-over-par opening round. African News Agency