JOHANNESBURG – South African MMA fans are on tenterhooks as they await the confirmation as to whether Boyd Allen (15-3-1) will recuperate in time to challenge Igeu Kabesa (9-1) for the Featherweight strap. Struggling with a serious bout of influenza that has iced Allen’s fight camp, it seems that the Extreme Fighting Championship are willing to give the FFM fan-favourite more time to get the doctors nod to face the Congolese wrestling phenom on the 10th of March in Johannesburg. How long that is remains a mystery, but with Pierre Botha (8-5-1) and Paulo Bananada (22-12) keenly waiting for a late-replacement shot at gold, the pressure is on Allen who is undoubtedly a fighter to marvel at in full health. Thankfully, the remainder of bouts at EFC 67 are still on whilst the card for EFC 68 in Cape Town on the 31st of March begins to fill-up healthily. Nothing new has officially been added to the main card but I’ve heard that a fascinating match-up between Luke Michael (3-3) and Tshilomba Mulumba (0-7) has all but been agreed. ‘Young Gun’ Michael continues to improve with the Sunninghill mob and his celebration following his recent first-round submission against Roderique Kena (1-2) seemed an almost cathartic farewell to his past. READ: The Clinch - MMA-Zing Weekly Roundup ‘The Number One’ Mulumba, however, has a deceiving record with a good sprawl and decent standup and will be desperate for his first pro win. He hasn’t fought in over a year-and-a-half and will be looking to prove a rebirth of his own. 68 certainly seems to be turning into a crucial can’t-miss event with luminaries like Van Staden (18-9), Bright (6-0) and Mazany (15-7) sharing the supertroopers with the young, hungry upstarts like Hughes (9-0), Muyambo (6-5) and Roets (3-0). The main card at Grandwest kicks off with two stupendous scraps with Gary Joshua (3-0) battling Martin de Beer (6-3) and Cal Ellenor (6-1) throwing down with Faeez Jacbos (3-1) both fights involving four young rising lads who are as quick as whippets. I’ll hope to get more information on the remaining eight slots on 68 next week. Until then, cheers for now. eNCA