RUSTENBURG - North West Premier Supra Mahumapelo welcomed the raid by the Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation (Hawks) at his offices on Thursday. "In all my state of the province addresses since 2014, I have always emphasised the importance of all of us, as directed by our organisation, the ANC, to intensify on all fronts the campaign against greed, crime and corruption," he said hours after the raid began. "In this regard, the North West government adopted a monthly Setsokotsane programme focusing on 10 campaigns, which includes this matter," said Mahumapelo. The Hawks seized several documents during the raid. Hawks provincial spokesperson Captain Tlangelani Rikhotso said no arrests were effected, pending further investigation. Mahumapelo said the Office of the Premier welcomed and supported the Hawks action. "It is important for all of us, irrespective of our positions within government and elsewhere, to allow our offices to be subjected to the rule of law. We are fully cooperating with the Hawks and all other law enforcement agencies to strengthen the values of democracy in our republic. "As soon as all other forensic investigations are completed, we will accordingly inform the people of the province and South Africa at large," Mahumapelo said The opposition Democratic Alliance said the raid was long overdue. "After years of stealing from the people of the province, and a litany of charges and investigations, the wheels of justice are finally turning. Mahumapelo must now face all the allegations against him and account for his relationship with the Gupta family and involvement in state capture," said DA North West leader Joe McGluwa. "This could not have come at a better time, as the premier and his cabal attempt to muddy the waters by ordering forensic audits and calling people before the Standing Committee on Public Accounts in an attempt to get the spotlight off himself and his role in the collapse of the North West." He said the investigations must not be limited to Mahumapelo but must include all those who supported and protected him during his terms in office. North West provincial government spokesperson Brian Setswambung earlier said the Hawks visited the office in possession of a search warrant for payments made to Nepo Data Dynamics. "Last week, documents relating to this company were illegally accessed and distributed on social media. We welcome the search as it is consistent with our efforts to fight greed, crime and corruption as announced by Premier in his state of the province address. We will continue to cooperate with them," Setswambung said. The company has a three-year contract for IT and a marketing transformation at the provincial government. African News Agency