NEWLANDS, Cape Town– The Stormers held out for a 25-19 Super Rugby win over the visiting Reds at Newlands on Saturday evening after leading 18-7 at the halftime break. The victory margin should have been much wider considering all the possession the Stormers enjoyed and the amount of time they spent in the Reds' 22m area. In the end, the Reds came remarkably close after a late try and a final flurry in the final minute when they were thwarted five metres out. Play was fairly scrappy at the start where over-eagerness to establish early momentum saw teams struggle to strike up cohesion. Super Rugby: DHL Stormers v Reds. https://t.co/lugwQvqGLa @SuperRugby @THESTORMERS @redsrugby Pics by @thinusmaritz pic.twitter.com/PbRj76fy7Y After the Stormers went 3-0 ahead through a Damian Willemse penalty, they enjoyed an eight-minute passage of play in which they tried hard to breach the opposition defence but their pattern of play was too one dimensional and their moves broke down before it reached the Reds' 22m area. Late replacement George Whitehead who came into the Stormers side just before kick-off sparked a try-scoring move from inside his own 22m area where he sent scrumhalf Dewaldt Duvenage away. Leftwing Raymond Rule and inside centre EV Viljoen made tracks down the Railway Grandstand channels to keep the ball alive before Duvenage ranged up to take the scoring pass. Flyhalf Willemse's conversion attempt from the touchline went fractionally wide in the 15th minute (8-0). The Stormers continued to threaten soon afterwards and they came close but Viljoen was pushed out at the corner flag midway through the half. In the 26th minute, the Stormers made the pressure count when prop Wilco Louw over after several pick-and-go efforts were thwarted a metre or so from the tryline. Willemse's conversion pushed the scoreline out to 15-0. Willemse was on target with a 32nd penalty for an 18-0 lead but the Reds produced a strong finish which allowed them to reduce the deficit ahead of the break. Reds eighthman Caleb Timu found a huge gap in the Stormers' central defence and he ran in unchallenged to dot down next to the posts. Jono Lance, the Reds' flyhalf, added the extras from virtually in front to round off the first-half scoring at 18-7. The crowd of 17 300 had hardly taken their seats and the Reds had romped in for their second try, 90 seconds after the restart. Hooker Alex Mafi was the scorer and Lance goaled the conversion as the Aussie visitors trailed by four points (18-14). Any hopes the Reds may have had of adding to their tries on either side of the break vanished in the 52nd minute when Rule outsprinted the cover defence and dived on a bouncing ball after well-weighted through kick by rightwing Craig Barry. Willemse landed the conversion from the touchline as the Stormers opened an 11-point lead (25-14). In the closing stages, the Stormers had a host of scoring chances but they failed to exploit their opportunities. The Reds winger Filipo Daugunu scored a breakaway try in the final minute and the effort went unconverted (25-19). Scorers: Stormers 25 (18): Tries: Dewaldt Duvenage, Wilco Louw, Raymond Rule. Conversions: Damian Willemse (2) Penalties: Willemse (2)  
	Reds 19 (7): Tries: Caleb Timu, Alex Mafi, Filipo Daugunu. Conversions: Jono Lance (2). African News Agency