JOHANNESBURG - A video has surfaced showing one of the Mancoba Seven Angels Ministries in eNgcobo claiming to be an angel sent to earth by God. The church has reignited the debate around controversial pastors in South Africa. This ministry is at the centre of an investigation after five police officers and a retired soldier were gunned down, allegedly by members of the church. Last year, Pastor Hamilton Nala from KwaZulu-Natal claimed that his branded faith water cures homosexuality. Nala had previously said he could cure Aids. READ: Mother gave entire pension to eNgcobo church: daughter Another pastor under fire is Lesego Daniel of the Rabboni Centre Ministry Church in Pretoria. He first told his followers to eat grass to get closer to God and then he made them drink petrol. Appearing before the Commission for the Protection of Cultural, Religious and Linguistic Rights, Daniel said people had been healed with grass and petrol. MUST SEE: Grass-eating pastor now has congregation drinking petrol Penuel Mnguni of End Times Disciples Ministries attracted attention after he fed his congregation snakes. He allegedly said the snake was a bar of chocolate. WATCH: eNgcobo church leader confirms three brothers killed in raid Earlier this week, ‘Doom Pastor’ Lethebo Rabalago was found guilty on five counts of assault and three of contravening the Agricultural Remedies Act. He had sprayed Doom insect killer on the face of worshipers for healing. An expert on religion says there are several warning signs one may be attending a cult and not a church. “Most cults would be led by charismatic individuals, who claim to have secret knowledge or awareness, and they offer to make it available to their followers. “I think this is a difference at a leadership level, whereas most church leaders would want to empower people and bring them closer to Christ. In a sect, it would be very different. The cult is around the leader in these kinds of organisations," Dr Peter Langerman of Durban Presbyterian Church said. Freedom of Religion South Africa has called for an investigation into why Parliament ignored warnings about the Mancoba Seven Angels Ministries. READ: CRL to approach ConCourt over powers This comes after the CRL Rights Commission warned the church was dangerous several years ago. "One of the most concerning things about this tragedy is that the CRL Rights commission actually knew about it some 60 months ago. "They are on TV telling one of these angels, during the interview, that he is breaking the law… Two years later, with tragedy on our hands, we would like Parliament to ask them why they did not do more to intervene,” Freedom of Religion South Africa’s Michael Swain said. eNCA