HARARE - Zimbabwe came back from behind to beat Ireland by 107 runs in a Super Six fixture of the ICC Cricket World Cup Qualifier 2018 at the Harare Sports Club on Friday. In front of 7,500 noisy and celebrating spectators, Zimbabwe looked dead and buried when they slipped to 139/7 in the 34th over after being sent into bat, before Sikandar Raza’s undefeated 69 lifted them to 211/9. What a day @ZimCricketv pic.twitter.com/iMKhE49xmw Left-arm spinner Tendai Chisoro then followed up his 21 with the bat to pick up three frontline batsmen as Ireland slipped to 54/5, before Graeme Cremer ran through the middle and lower-order with 3/18 as the 2009 qualifier champions were dismissed for 104. The victory helped Zimbabwe join Scotland on five points and ahead in first place on net run-rate, while Ireland was left with two points in the fourth position. Both sides have two matches remaining, with Zimbabwe to square off against the Windies and the United Arab Emirates on 19 and 22 March, respectively, while Ireland have tricky matches against Scotland and Afghanistan on March 18 and 23, respectively. The top two sides from this tournament will qualify for the ICC Cricket World Cup 2019, which will be held in England and Wales from May 30 to July 14. A delighted Zimbabwe captain Graeme Cremer later said: “Very happy, we knew we had a score to defend, but the bowling and fielding were outstanding today. We could not have asked for anything better. Celebrations as Zimbabwe claim Ireland’s 7th wicket!! #ZIMvIRE @ZimCricketv pic.twitter.com/nb8N1wfBPd “Physiologically, getting over 200 we knew it was going to be hard for them to chase, especially if we bowled well. Chisoro opening up as a spinner is never easy, but for him to get three and for the rest of the bowlers to step up was amazing. “It was a match-winning knock from Sikander Raza, he’s done it time and time again for us. The way he stuck it out and batted out for us until the end was excellent and credit to him, definitely my man of the match.” William Porterfield was a disappointed Ireland captain when he said: “It has been a game of two halves really, if you give us 212 to chase on that pitch you would be pretty happy. We were confident at half-time, but then never really got going. “It’s hard to put your finger on for now, what happened there, it’s pretty disappointing to get bowled out on that pitch. I think we gifted them early on and put us on the back foot, Stirlo (Paul Stirling) played pretty well, but then he just lost his partners at the other end, and I obviously started that off. We have to pick ourselves up and get a result on Sunday now.” African News Agency