JOHANNESBURG - Proteas fast bowler Kagiso Rabada has been cleared to play for South Africa with immediate effect by the International Cricket Council (ICC). Rabada was found not guilty of the charge of making inappropriate and deliberate physical contact with a player following a hearing before the Right Honourable Michael Heron QC on Monday. Rabada was found guilty of conduct that is contrary to the spirit of the game, under Article 2.1.1 of the Code. As such Mr Heron imposed a sanction of a fine of 25% of his match fee and one demerit point. #RabadaAppeal pic.twitter.com/HxpQ1Q2WnG Rabada was, however, found guilty of conduct that is contrary to the spirit of the game, an offence under Article 2.1.1 of the Code. Heron imposed a sanction of a fine of 25% of his match fee and one demerit point. This brings the player’s demerit points to a cumulated total of 7 and he is free to play with immediate effect. In summary, Heron outlined his findings: “The key issue is whether Mr Rabada made ‘inappropriate and deliberate physical contact’ with Mr Smith. I am not ‘comfortably satisfied’ that Mr Rabada intended to make contact and I therefore find him not guilty of the charge under 2.2.7. "South Africa bowler Kagiso Rabada has been found not guilty of the charge of making inappropriate and deliberate physical contact with a player following a hearing before the Right Honourable Michael Heron QC yesterday." - ICC press release. #RabadaAppeal pic.twitter.com/7t2yOGWNTk “I am entitled, however, to consider whether the conduct involved constitutes a lower level offence. I consider the conduct was inappropriate, lacked respect for his fellow player and involved non-deliberate and minor contact. The actions contravened the principle that a dismissed batsman should be left alone. READ: Rabada charged after Smith incident “I consider a penalty of the imposition of a fine of 25% of the applicable match fee to be the appropriate penalty for the breach of Article 2.1.1. As a consequence, 1 demerit point accrues. Mr. Rabada will be well aware of the consequences of any further breaches of the code.” “The key issue is whether Mr Rabada made ‘inappropriate and deliberate physical contact’ with Mr. Smith. I am not ‘comfortably satisfied’ that Mr. Rabada intended to make contact and I therefore find him not guilty of the charge under 2.2.7." - Right Honourable Michael Heron QC pic.twitter.com/aFVR3OKdmq ICC Chief Executive David Richardson said, "The ICC wholly accepts today’s decision and I would like to thank Mr. Heron for overseeing the hearing in a short time frame before the next Test starts in South Africa. “This is perhaps an opportune moment to remind all players of their responsibilities to maintaining a standard of behavior which sets a good example to players at all levels of the game, especially the young players. We want to see the game played with skill, passion and respect for the opposition, the match officials and the laws.” eNCA