AUCKLAND - What a contest this was! This will undoubtedly go down as one of the most memorable matches of the Super Rugby season as over 100 points were scored; with the Sharks ultimately emerging as deserved victors. The Sharks led by 19 points at the break, and despite slipping behind after a remarkable fightback from the Blues early in the second half, it was ultimately the superb kicking of Rob du Preez that proved to be the difference. FULLTIME: The sharks defeat the Blues at Eden park in a high point scoring game with Robert Du Preez kicking 13/13 #SuperRugby #BLUvSHA pic.twitter.com/t8iYpmP5yQ The Sharks came into this clash on the back of an embarrassing 46-14 loss to the Rebels, and yet they looked like a completely different side as they powered into a 13-0 lead early on against the Blues. Importantly, Du Preez was accurate from two early kicks at goal, while captain Ruan Botha showed good strength to score in the 10th minute. READ: Sharks cruise to bonus-point victory over Sunwolves in Durban The Blues had looked completely out of sorts in the opening stanza, but they did show some fight when fullback Michael Collins finished off a beautiful try after the ball had gone through the hands of several players. Yet, just as it seemed the Blues might be working their way back into the clash, a superb break from Andre Esterhuizen set up a try for Jean-Luc du Preez, while his older brother Rob slotted his fourth penalty just before the break. That sent the Sharks into a powerful 26-7 lead at the break, but they provided the Blues with some hope soon after the restart when S’bu Nkosi was yellow-carded for a high tackle. In his absence, the Blues scored almost immediately through Akira Ioane, while big lock Patrick Tuipulotu bust through two tackles and next went over for a try that suddenly cut the deficit back to a mere five points. Blues blown away by Sharks in Super Rugby https://t.co/eFbXZ1SSMo pic.twitter.com/DlJs9TH6f0 Just before Nkosi’s return, Stephen Perofeta then cut a swathe through the Sharks’ defence to go over for the Blues’ third try in eight minutes as the hosts went into the lead for the first time in the game with 25 minutes left to play. Just at it looked as if the Sharks had blown an unassailable lead, this remarkable contest saw the Durbanites hit back through tries to Tera Mtembu and Rob du Preez as they established a 12-point buffer heading into the final quarter. A frenetic finish to the clash saw Rieko Ioane and George Moala score for the Blues, but the Sharks would go over for two more of their own through Kobus van Wyk and Curwin Bosch as they deservedly had the final say on proceedings. Scorers: Blues 40 (7): Tries: Michael Collins, Akira Ioane, Patrick Tuipulotu, Stephen Perofeta, Rieko Ioane, George Moala. Conversions: Stephen Perofeta (4), Bryn Gatland.
	Sharks 63 (26): Tries: Ruan Botha, Jean-Luc du Preez, Tera Mtembu, Rob du Preez, Kobus van Wyk, Curwin Bosch. Conversions: Rob du Preez (6). Penalties: Du Preez (7). – African News Agency (ANA), Editing by Herman Gibbs African News Agency