JOHANNESBURG - Amateur Franklin Manchest on Wednesday raced to a five-under-par 67 second round of the Vusi Ngubeni Strokeplay to take a one-shot lead over Allister de Kock going to moving day at Modderfontein Golf Club. His flawless 67 follows a respectable level-par first round where he seemed to struggle with his putter, but in round two, those struggles seemed to have vanished. “I putted very well today,” he said, “and my driving, I hit the ball very straight today off the tee so that helped me a lot.” Amateur Franklin Manchest shot 5-under 67 in Rd2 of Vusi Ngubeni Stroke Play to take a 1-stroke lead. He says he likes the pressure.
		
		His thoughts... pic.twitter.com/FjCynnuxPh Starting his round on the 10th, the former member of the South African Golf Development Board went about his business steadily and with caution, turning with a level-par 36. He loosened up on the front nine of the course which was his back nine, making back-to-back birdies on his first two holes there. Pars from holes three to five kept his momentum going before he made another bogey on the sixth. He made another par on the next hole and bookended his homeward stretch with two more birdies. “I just told myself to keep calm and do the things I was doing yesterday,” he said, “because I thought I played well yesterday and today all I wanted to do was to keep my composure and not stress myself.” Amateur Franklin Manchest opens with level-par 72 at @Sunshine_Tour Vusi Ngubeni Q-School. 2 off lead. Before he was 10 he'd been mugged & stabbed in the neck for R2. Once a member of the SAGDB & now moving further forward in the game. -- He showed great maturity, especially on his front nine because the cautious approach he employed there gave him the confidence to attack the back nine. His effort saw him usurp De Kock, who was leading for the better part of the day, from the summit of the leaderboard. De Kock only made one bogey in round two en route to his three-under 69, and now occupies the second spot on four-under for the week. He, too, was happy with his putting in round two, an aspect of his game which he feels has been letting him down on the Sunshine Tour this season. “I’m still not hitting the ball as well as I know I can,” he admitted, “but my putter saved me. Even last week at Q-school, I could feel it coming back to me and I think I made about 26 putts there, and today as well, I might have made the same number but I didn’t really count.” He made a solitary bogey on Wednesday, while making four birdies and says the absence of bogeys on his scorecard is down to being comfortable on the golf course. “I am very comfortable now,” he said. Our academy and Southern Cape SAGDB kids wish Franklin Manchest all the best as he competes in the @Sunshine_Tour Vusi Ngubeni Tour School @ModderGolfClub #golf #juniorgolf #growingthegame pic.twitter.com/9ik3wZXF13 “But, don’t get me wrong, it is tougher at Vusi because I think here there are a lot of good players. But I am comfortable in my own game and I am not trying to do funny things when I get to the green, I just keep things simple,” he said. Third on the leaderboard is Makhetha Mazibuko on a total of two-under for the week after he shot a 70 in round two while Derick Petersen’s 69 did a lot to minimise the damage the 74 he shot in the first round might have caused him. He shares the fourth spot with Teboho Sefatsa while Heinrich Bruiners, Dwayne Basson, Gerard du Plooy, Irvin Mazibuko and amateur Fezekile Kana share the sixth spot on level par. African News Agency