PAARL - After narrowly missing out on running a new SA record in the women’s 1500m at the Grand Prix Series Meeting in Paarl on Thursday, Caster Semenya is pleased with her progress this season. “We made sure of running a good rhythm and when I heard the announcer say in the final 200m I was one second out (of the record), I really pushed hard,” said Semenya after her race in which she won in a time of four minutes two seconds (4:02.5). “It is a pity I did not get the record, but this race showed me just where I am in my training and it is all on track.” The record still belongs to Zola Budd who ran 4:01.80 in 1984. WATCH: Munyai shatters Wayde van Niekerk's 200m SA record Semenya had Dominique Scott chase her until she too dropped off with 300m before the end. “I was really happy with this run,” said Scott. “I said I would try and stick with Caster for as long as possible and if I could beat my indoor best of 4:07.25 I would be extremely happy.” Scott’s outdoor personal best is 4:08.04 and she narrowly missed that after crossing the line in second place in 4:08.61. "Everything is possible for one who believes"
		Mark 9:24#IAM1
		--@koketsomogapilj
		@kjm.lifestyle pic.twitter.com/zWwdmKg47N It was an evening of incredible performances as Luxolo Adams, recently crowned the SA 200m champion, dipped former SA 200m record holder, Anaso Jobodwana on the line. Adams had brought his personal best down to 20.08sec at the national championships from 20.45. On Thursday, he lowered that time again, this time to 20.01 ahead of Jobodwana’s 20.07. “I’m in good shape right now. Two PB’s in the space of a week is really encouraging,” said the Eastern Cape athlete. Ruswahl Samaai had not competed in Paarl, his hometown, in close to a decade. The World Championship bronze medalist did not disappoint and leapt to his second best ever performance in the Long Jump, landing at 8.39m.
	“It has been seven years since I competed here. I am really excited to be competing at home and hope the crowds come out and support us,” said Samaai. READ: Caster Semenya shatters 600m world record in Berlin The crowds responded and cheered every jump that Samaai and the rest of the field leapt right in front of the packed pavilion. Samaai’s leap is the second best in the world this year, behind the Cuban, Juan Miguel Echevarria’s 8.40m. “I am tired of being second all the time. My goal is to become the number one long jumper in SA and the world,” said Samaai. He is certainly consistent and will definitely be a threat to the global stage. South African 100m record-holder, Akani Simbine closed out the evening’s performances with a clinical 10.08 win. READ: Semenya could be forced into hormone therapy in future competition “I stumbled a bit in the last 20m, but I am 96 perecent happy with my run. There are still some small things to work on, but I am happy where I am, especially after having missed out on defending my SA Title.” Simbine had to withdraw from the semi-finals at the national championships, after cramping in his hamstring, so this race was vital to him as his final preparation for the Commonwealth Games. African News Agency