JOHANNESBURG - Ball tampering has now featured in the string of controversies in the series between South Africa and Australia. On Saturday, day 3 of the third Test match between the two sides in Cape Town, Australia's Cameron Bancroft was spoken to by umpires regarding his ‘shining’ of the ball. Cameras caught the fielder holding a yellow object with the hand he uses to shine. He then appeared to hide it from the officials and instead showed them a small cloth. AFP is now reporting that Bancroft admitted to using yellow tape to try and change the ball’s condition. According to espncricinfo.com, Bancroft said after close of play that he has charged with "attempting to change the condition of the ball." He is reported to have said his team leadership knew waht he was doing and that hte team spoke about it during the lunch break. Bancroft was caught on camera tampering the ball with a foreign object.
		Bancroft, Smith admit to ball-tampering https://t.co/aftlpFPbeA Bancroft's actions will remain a talking point given the ball tampering history between the two squads. The player is fresh from another ball tampering controversy after he left fans startled during tea in the Ashes Test against England when he was caught by cameras putting a spoon of sugar in the palm of his hand before putting it in his left pocket. On Thursday, Australia bowler Pat Cummins stepped on the ball during the first day’s play. Cummins could face disciplinary action from the match referee for that incident. Television replays showed Cummins stepping on the ball, which had come to rest on the edge of the pitch after his delivery had been defended by South Africa opener Dean Elgar in the 53rd over of the innings, shortly before the tea interval. Whether his actions were intentional or not will be for officials to decide though no official charges had been laid as yet. Ball tampering - why it is an issue Law 42 in the International Cricket Council (ICC) code of conduct deals with ball-tampering as follows: "Players are barred, by Law 42.3, from rubbing the ball on the ground, interfering with its seam or surface, or using any implement that can alter the condition of the ball to thereby gain unfair advantage."  (Source: www.quora.com) The #SAvAus series as a whole has been marred by controversy. Third test The Australian cricket team on Friday laid an official complaint over what coach Darren Lehmann labelled "disgraceful" behaviour by spectators during the third Test at Newlands. READ: Australia complain over fans' 'disgraceful' abuse of players “You are talking about abuse of various players and their families and personal abuse,” said Lehmann. The principal target was Australian batsmen David Warner, who was approached by a spectator in the members’ stand after he was dismissed, causing Warner to stop and turn as he climbed the steps to the dressing room. The pair appeared to exchange heated words with unconfirmed reports saying the spectator was evicted from the ground. READ: Elgar sets batting world record for South Africa Second test Proteas fast bowler Kagiso Rabada was cleared to play for South Africa with immediate effect by the ICC this week. During the second test, Rabada was charged with a level two offence following an incident with Australian captain Steve Smith. Level two offences are for conduct of a serious nature. In Rabada's case, the alleged offense is making inappropriate or deliberate contact with another player. Rabada was, however, eventually found not guilty of the charge of making inappropriate and deliberate physical contact with a player following a hearing before Michael Heron on Monday. Radaba has devastated the Australian batting line-up and shouted in celebration and approached Smith 'aggressively' after winning a leg before wicket (LBW) decision against him. There was then contact by the shoulders. First test Leaked closed-circuit television footage showed a confrontation between Australian vice-captain Warner and South African wicket keeper Quinton de Kock at the end of the first test match. Footage showed Warner apparently turning on de Kock as the players walked up a narrow staircase leading to the dressing rooms at the start of the interval in Durban - a match won by Australia. READ: Lehmann wants 'clear the air talks' with South Africans Personal insults were at the root of a row between the pair, their captains said. (Additional reporting: ANA) eNCA