LONGXIAN, China- Villagers in northern China wake up before dawn to paint their faces with pinkish make-up, don colourful robes and wield swords to represent legendary figures for a unique festival capping Chinese New Year celebrations. READ: Five things to know about Chinese New Year Chinese people take the 26 hours-train from Beijing to Chengdu, few days before the Chinese New Year. This is the largest migration of human beings in the world where hundreds of millions of citizens take planes, trains and cars to go back to their families in provinces. pic.twitter.com/hgUBqjnvQs Art troupes gather at a plaza in Longxian county, Shanxi province, to sing, beat drums, dance, and perform traditional Chinese drama and martial arts during the pagan She Huo celebration for the gods of land and fire. Chinese people prepare to parade for the She Huo, in Longxiang, Shaanxi province, on Feb 27, 2018. She Huo, celebrated in the northwestern China, is a festival dedicated to the gods of earth and fire. "She" literally means "God of Earth" and Huo means "God of Fire @visitshaanxi pic.twitter.com/rVoWpDxdW1 They then hold a lively parade, some wearing long fake beards, others riding real horses or fake decorative stallions around their waist as onlookers follow them. For this important regional tradition, performers get up as early as 4:00 am to paint their faces and prepare stage props like swords and spears. A Chinese woman dressed with a traditional bride costume, poses during a wedding performance as part of the She Huo festival, to celebrate the Lunar New Year, marking the Year of the Dog, in Hancheng, Shaanxi province, on February 16, 2018. pic.twitter.com/mT4RtPQpXP China marked its New Year on 16 February to enter the Year of the Dog, but celebrations last for days and include regional traditions. The She Huo festival dates back to ancient China when people performed to pray to their gods for a bumper harvest and good weather. Chinese boy dressed for the She Huo festival, to celebrate the Lunar Ne Year in Longxiang, Shaanxi province, on February 27, 2018. She Huo is dedicated to the gods of earth and fire. "She" literally means "God of Earth" and huo means "God of Fire." @visitshaanxi @AFPphoto pic.twitter.com/sNyvkBgITy Now it is listed as an intangible cultural heritage in China, where local governments are making efforts to make more people participate and enjoy the activity. Chinese man dressed with a traditional costume, poses as part of the She Huo festival, to celebrate the Lunar New Year, in Hancheng, Shaanxi province. She Huo festival, celebrated in the northwestern China, is a festival dedicated to the gods of earth and fire. @visitshaanxi pic.twitter.com/av0DDQQwv3 Government workers typically walk in front of the parade, leading it to new construction sites and shops as the art troupes perform blessing rituals. But concerned villagers still worry about the fading of the tradition, saying the festival is getting shorter every year and the schedule is becoming increasingly unpredictable. "It's not as lively as it used to be when I was young," Chen Liping, a She Huo performer in her 40s, told AFP. "I hope it can be as boisterous forever, so we can have new performances every year." AFP