PARLIAMENT - Former South African Airways (SAA) board chair Dudu Myeni has again skipped Parliament's enquiry into state capture at state-owned enterprises, this time pleading ill health. Zukiswa Rantho, who is chairing the inquiry, told MPs on Wednesday Myeni did not reply to a request for a doctor's note explaining her condition. Last week Dudu Myeni didn’t rock up to #EskomInquiry saying she needed to see her lawyer. Now she is apparently sick but Chairperson still waiting for bunkalitis Letter. #DuduMyeni Irate MPs agreed Myeni would be given another week's grace but will be told that she has no choice but to present herself for questioning, and in the meanwhile has to provide a sick certificate. A week ago, Myeni excused herself from testifying by sending text messages to the inquiry's secretary, saying her lawyer needed more time to scrutinise the legal issues around her appearance. DA MP Natasha Mazzone said Myeni was playing games. "I think it is quite clear that this is a cat and mouse game. I don't buy this, I think we are being taken for fools." In 2017, former Eskom chair Zola Tsotsi told the committee that Myeni, during a meeting at former president Jacob Zuma's home, instructed him to suspend executives at the company. Myeni accused him of lying. UPDATE: Dudu Myeni lands plum job for government: Report The committee accepted a request by home affairs minister Malusi Gigaba to be given an extension of ten days to appear before the committee. Gigaba asked for time to compile information to be able to answer questions properly. He is expected to be grilled on corporate governance failures at parastatals during his tenure as public enterprises minister, the appointment of board members and the extension of Eskom contracts to companies that form part of the Gupta family's business empire. The Gupta brothers have been told to appear before the inquiry next Tuesday. However, African Christian Democratic Party MP Steve Swart said he believed this was highly unlikely given the fact that they appeared to be dodging the police as the clampdown on their business network continued. "They are all over the country and the Hawks are trying to find them," he said. However, the committee's secretariat said the Guptas' lawyer confirmed the brothers will appear. The Committee's secretariat informs the Committee that lawyers representing the Gupta brothers has confirmed with the #EskomInquiry that they will appear before the committee The committee has heard extensive testimony that they used their political connections to enter into dubious contracts with state enterprises and raked in billions in the process. African News Agency