JOHANNESBURG - A sugar cane farm and farmhouse that was set alight by community members of Umlalazi in Eshowe are eerily quiet after the violence flared up on Thursday. The South African Police Service (SAPS) earlier confirmed the incident. #sapsKZN Community members of Umlalazi in #Eshowe embarked on #ProtestAction this am; barricaded the R66 Road and P230. Sugarcane plantation & house on a farm set alight. POP & #SAPS Empangeni maintaining strong presence. ME pic.twitter.com/dGWpP6BqGG Farmers called for urgent help in the volatile situation. Appeal for help #Eshowe farms .@SAPoliceService @BhekiCele_ANC Angry community torching buildings, fields after youth shot by security guard on Corby Estate; this is #Criminal NOT #political, non affiliated adjacent farms also being targeted #SOS pic.twitter.com/o6CIf7uPm8 SAPS s/sperson Thembeka Mbhele:"Yesterday the community started protesting saying the suspect hadn't been arrested when he had been. The community closed the roads...SAPS were dispatched to #Eshowe. About 300 protesters went & burnt the house of the farmer & his sugarcane." @eNCA pic.twitter.com/93jTS9Odpc In a statement, National Commissioner of Police, General Khehla John Sitole called upon the community of the Umlalazi, Eshowe and surrounding areas to be calm and tolerant following the killing of one of its community members. "Yesterday, two young men, one of them being 30-year old Spamandla Xulu, were fishing in a dam on the Gqobhokani farm. The men were confronted by a security guard and requested to leave which resulted in an altercation that led to the guard allegedly fatally shooting Mr Xulu. The second man escaped uninjured," says the SAPS in its statement.
	"Since the shooting of Xulu, the security guard has been arrested on a charge of murder and he is currently in police custody. "However, the community is alleged to have taken to the streets initially burning tyres on the R66 road followed by the burning of the farmer's house at the Gqobhokani farm, his sugarcane plantation as well as at least two neighbouring plantations." "The man suspected of killing Mr Xulu has been arrested and members of the community should allow the law to take its course," said Sitole. "I have tasked the Provincial Commissioner to also mobilise an investigation task team to investigate the burning of the farm house and farms and bring those responsible to book as such behaviour is criminal and unacceptable", added Sitole. "Destroying property is no solution to any problem but rather is a crime which is punishable by law. Furthermore, it serves to neither help nor corrects any situation", said Sitole. Police have arrested one suspect in connection with the fatal shooting. #sapsHQ #SAPSNPC Gen #Sitole calls upon the community of Umlalazi, #Eshowe and surrounding areas to be calm & tolerant following the killing of one of its community members. Man suspected of murder arrested. MEhttps://t.co/LY7At7SiQ1 pic.twitter.com/0yOvmPGFEs eNCA