CAPE TOWN – Minister Malusi Gigaba provided feedback on the meeting he attended with the Portfolio Committee on Home Affairs in Parliament about the naturalisation of members of the Gupta family on Tuesday afternoon. The minister called a press briefing on the matter. He said, among other things, that should the Guptas be found guilty of a criminal offense in future in South Africa, their citizenship or, where applicable, permanent residency, would be revoked. GIgaba: Mr. Ajay Gupta is not a SA citizen. He is a permanent resident because he did not renounce Indian citizenship. Atul Gupta is also not a citizen, because he never applied for SA citizenship. #Gupta Apleni says Gupta's Ajay and Atul are travelling on Indian passports because they're not South African citizens. #Gupta Gigaba: says they won't declare anyone an Undesirable before they return back to face charges. #Gupta READ: Home Affairs again defends Gigaba over Guptas' citizenship To date, the Department of Home Affairs has defended Gigaba for fast-tracking the family’s citizenship application. Gigaba returned to the department recently after he was moved from the finance portfolio during the recent Cabinet reshuffle. The minister came under fire in 2017, when it emerged he personally intervened to help the Guptas with their naturalisation certificates in 2015. Gigaba says the Home Affairs committee has concluded the matter of #Gupta naturalisation. The Department provided a technical explanation to Comm. And today provided a political explanation. Gigaba: 5 People applied for naturalisation in March 2013. That was during the time of Minister Naledi Pandor. Some of these family received permanent residence in 2003. Others in 2008 when Min. Mapisa-Nqakula was minister. Gigaba: Ajay Gupta got permanent residence 2008 and applied for naturalisation in 2013. He's application was rejected because other family members did not meet requirements. Gigaba: They applied as a family and not individuals. So if one person was rejected, the rest would also be rejected. 4/5 qualified because they were in SA long enough. But one person was disqualified because out of the country for 90 consecutive days. #Gupta Gigaba: The family appealed and the department received a number of documents, including documents of company ownership and philanthropic organisations. At the time they were employing more than 15 thousand people. #Gupta Gigaba: An interal panel in the department, that excluded the ministery, reviewed the application after it was taken on appeal. Gigaba:Everything regarding #Gupta citizenship was above board and to the law. I'm happy the matter has been settled. Gigaba says the law does allow for naturalised citizens to have their citizenship revoked. "We could not predict in 2015 that some members of these families would be suspected of corruption. But even so we'd have to wait for a court process to be completed." #Gupta Now Home Affairs DG Apleni says he's happy the process is now completed. Apleni: The crux of the matter is that it wasn't EVERYONE in the #Gupta family. It was the nuclear family of Ajay Gupta who applied for naturalisation. Gigaba: If there was any intention on our part to favour #Gupta family we would not have asked them to renounce Indian citizenship. Gigaba says they have ended an element of accountability around naturalization & there's no secrecy. #Guptas eNCA