JOHANNESBURG – South Africa’s Rio Paralympic archer Shaun Anderson shows no sign of slowing down in his rapid rise in the sport. Anderson keeps on improving each time he competes, since his 2017 boat accident in which he lost the use of his legs. Over the weekend during a competition at Tuks in Pretoria, he shot a score of 628 points which is a new South African record in his category. Over the first round, he shot 318 which is also a new record. ARTICLE. 60 seconds with… South Africa’s @Paralympics #archery athlete Shaun Anderson https://t.co/DVvxqAYINW pic.twitter.com/7BRIIQ4E9k Another highlight was shooting an“all gold” on two occasions during the competition which is when an archer manages to get all six arrows into the bull. Taking into account that Anderson was only able to start competing in February again his achievements have been impressive. In his first competition, his total score was 400. Then he shot 586 followed by 608. A score of 628 would have placed him in the top at the last World Championships. Anderson confidently predicts that the best is yet to come. “On Sunday I will be competing at the South African Championships at Marks Park. I know what I am capable of at the moment, but I am not going to say anything. I will first do it and talk about what I have achieved afterwards. The important thing will be to remain focused and to keep the costly mistakes to a minimum. Lastly, the weather has got to play along,” said Anderson. “At Tuks, I shot four scores of six and two of five. Say I improve by just point with each of the arrows it will be an extra six or more points on the board for me.” Anderson ascribes his continued improvement to having become an ardent student of archery. He is from South Africa
		Shaun Anderson, #RioOlympics2016 #Paralympics archery at Rio 2016.
		Are you able to play?-- pic.twitter.com/sPvtaRrg50 “During each competition, I make a list of the mistakes I made. Afterwards, Barbara Manning who coaches me and I set about making sure that it won’t happen again. “One of the problems we have to look at is getting me out of the chair during a competition. During the last two, I remained on the line in my chair all the time that led to me getting spasms when I shoot during the second round. I think it would be a good idea to get some physiotherapy between the rounds.” Anderson has officially been invited to compete in a major international competition in the Czech Republic. Most of the top archers in his category will be competing. “I would love to go and test myself against them as it would give me a good indication as to what I still need to do to qualify for the 2020 Paralympic Games. The challenge will be to find some funding which will enable me to go,” said Anderson who also lost an arm in a motorcycle accident. African News Agency