JOHANNESBURG - It was a round which finished in the dark on Friday, and at the end of the storm-delayed second round of the Tour Championship at Serengeti Estates, Justin Harding’s superb seven-under-par 65 had propelled him into a share of the halfway lead. With the tournament also featuring a pro-am element in the Serengeti Invitational, players pushed to finish even though darkness had fallen, and the final group concluded their round under television lights and the odd set of headlights from evacuation vehicles parked around the 18th green. “It turned out to be a long day,” said Harding. “I was hoping that because I was first off, I’d get done and dusted quite quickly, but the storms came in. I held myself together and I managed to make a couple of birdies coming in which put the icing on the cake of a pretty decent day.” Harding shared the lead with Darren Fichardt, who carded a fine six-under 66 of his own to move to 10-under for the tournament. The leading pair were two shots clear of Serengeti member Jbe’ Kruger and Dean Burmester, who carded five-under and four-under respectively. Harding dropped just one shot during his round. “It was a naughty three-putt,” he said. “If you hit it on the wrong side on these greens, you can leave yourself some devilish putts, and I just couldn’t seem to get it inside a ‘gimme’ range. But I hit a lot close on the front nine which kind of kick-started the round and just kind of kept it going towards the end. I avoided the big mistakes on the back nine.” Fichardt also dropped just a single shot during his round, and, unlike Harding, he had to finish in near-darkness. “I’ve played in darker conditions than that,” he said, “but there were cars all around the players then with their lights on.” That happened for the final group to finish, and Burmester made bogey on 17 before putting out for par on the 18th under the glare of the television lights for a 68. It was only the second bogey of his round, and, while he would have been pleased to have got his round done, he would have preferred not to have dropped a shot and been closer to the lead going into the weekend. Kruger carded a 67, and he will be feeling bullish going into the final 36 holes. He has an intimate knowledge of the Serengeti layout, and the security of knowing that he won the last time he played a professional tournament on the course. For Harding, it’s about keeping on making birdies. “I’ve obviously set myself up nicely for the weekend,” he said. “I hope the game stays where it is and I can post a couple of good scores.” African News Agency