OUGADOUGOU - The capital of Burkina Faso came under multiple attacks on Friday which targeted the French embassy, the French cultural centre and the country's military headquarters, an AFP reporter and witnesses said. Witnesses said five armed men got out of a car and opened fire on passersby before heading towards the embassy in the centre of the city. An AFP reporter heard heavy exchanges of gunfire and saw a blazing vehicle, which witnesses said was the car used by the assailants. Police and army units were deployed in the area. Explosions and gunfire reported near #French #Embassy in #BurkinaFaso and Army HQ. Police urge civilians not to enter area. Premier Ministère and Nations-Unies roundabout affected. #Ambassade_de_France #Ouagadougou pic.twitter.com/xExKIMX5ex #UPDATE Burkina Faso capital Ougadougou comes under multiple attacks targeting French embassy, cultural centre and country's military HQ, AFP reporter and witnesses say https://t.co/ndfiUPGJA1 #Burkina pic.twitter.com/hiUDCecnar Other witnesses said there was an explosion near the headquarters of the Burkinabe armed forces and the French cultural centre, which are located about a kilometre from the site of the first attack. There is no early information about any casualties. READ: Top Burkina Faso generals on trial over failed coup The French embassy confirmed that French interests were under attack. "Attack underway at the French embassy and French Institute. Stay indoors," it said in a terse message posted on Facebook. Deadly jihadist insurgency Burkina Faso is one of a string of fragile countries on the southern rim of the Sahara that are battling jihadist groups. The insurgency has caused thousands of deaths, prompted tens of thousands to flee their homes and dealt crippling blows to economies that are already among the poorest in the world. READ: 17 dead in Burkina Faso restaurant 'terrorist attack' On August 13 last year, two assailants opened fire on a restaurant on Ouagadougou's main avenue, killing 19 people and wounded 21. The attack remains unclaimed. On January 15, 2016, 30 people, including six Canadians and five Europeans, were killed in a jihadist attack on a hotel and restaurant in the city centre. Responsibility was claimed by a group called Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM). AFP