PRETORIA – Protesters will on Friday march to scene where a 21-year-old Taxify driver’s body was discovered. #JusticeForSiyabonga mAtch now moving. The marchers are heading to the scene where Siyabonga Ngcobos charred remains were found. pic.twitter.com/0ENDNnhbjk Twenty-one-year-old Siyabonga Ngcobo’s body was found in the boot of a burnt out vehicle in Pretoria last week. Uber and Taxify drivers as well as students marched on Friday morning calling on authorities to make arrests. #JusticeForSiyabonga March #NotinMyName and Uber and Taxify drivers and students here to send message to authorities to make arrests. pic.twitter.com/VG0jln1Naa Demonstrators said they wanted to be able to drive whatever they liked. Transport Minister Blade Nzimande will visit the man’s family on Friday. Earlier this week, Gauteng Transport MEC Ismail Vadi said he would ensure the killers faced prosecution and promised to shut down all services if necessary. WATCH: Gauteng MEC for Roads and Transport Ismail Vadi condemn the murder of Taxify cab driver #SiyabongaNgcobo pic.twitter.com/Ro95MmgSfr A memorial service was held at Tshwane University of Technology (TUT), which was attended by Ngcobo’s family, friends and fellow students. An emotional moment for Ngcobo's family as TUT students remembers him in song. #SiyabongaNgcobo @SowetanLIVE pic.twitter.com/7ujnbgvpBp South Africans have condemned the gruesome murder on Twitter. We have to reclaim our capacity to feel outraged. The cruel murder of a Taxify driver, Siyabonga Langelihle Ngcobo, who was stuffed into the boot of his car that was set alight by meter taxi drivers cannot be shrugged off as just another day in violent South Africa. The gruesome death of Siyabonga Ngcobo, a Taxify operator, is not new and won’t be the last. What we haven’t spoken about are the reasons why men in the taxi industry mete out such brutal violence as a way of competing for economic opportunity. Siyabonga Ngcobo's murder is heartbreaking. He was a focused young person who worked hard to improve his life by driving a Taxify to support his studies. But some thugs decided to waste his previous life by handing him the worst form of death - setting him on fire. Police appealed to anyone with information that could lead to the arrest of the perpetrators to contact the local police station on (012) 422-3600 or send an anonymous tip-off to Crime Stop on 08600-10111 or via Crime Line by SMSing on 32211. No arrests have been made as yet. eNCA