PRETORIA – Mamelodi Sundowns advanced to the group stage of the CAF Champions League, in beating Rwanda league winners Rayon Sport 2-0 in a first round, second leg match of the premier continental competition, played at Loftus Stadium in Pretoria on Sunday evening. After holding the 8-time Rwandan league champions to a goalless draw in the first leg fixture played in Nyanza, Pitso Mosimane's charges created enough opportunities to have at least put in a win by three or more goals, with the goal-hungry Percy Tau ever present in creating or attempting to convert chances. FULL TIME | Mamelodi Sundowns 2 : 0 Rayon Sports: Arendse & Villa Tau's pro activeness eventually led to him being the provider in terms of sending in a corner kick which was volleyed home by central defender Wayne Arendse in the 34th minute. In the 55th minute, the former continental league champions doubled their advantage through Sibusiso Vilakazi who slotted the ball home after the initial strike on goal from Uruguayan midfielder Gaston Sirino had struck the Rayon cross-bar. READ: Is Bolt heading to Mamelodi Sundowns? The visitors never gave up and their best chance of breaching the Sundowns rearguard came as early as the 16th minute, when Shaban Hussen unleashed a powerful shot from 20 metres out, but Sundowns goalkeeper Dennis Onyango was equal to the task. The frustration of not being able to breach the Sundowns defence got to the visitors in the closing stages and in injury time in the second half, striker Bimenyimana Bonfils Caleb was sent from the field after executing a two-footed dangerous tackle on Sundowns fullback Tebogo Langerman. What a game, what amazing support! We’ll see you in the group stages of the CAF Champions League. #Sundowns #CAFCL pic.twitter.com/vaHJ4C0qf4 The win allowed Sundowns to extend their unbeaten run to 10 games (2 in the CAF Champions League, 2 in the Nedbank Cup and 6 in the Absa Premiership) in which they have netted 14 times and conceded just 4 goals. Sundowns will now turn their focus to Nedbank Cup quarterfinal action, as they prepare for a tough trip to the Mother City, for their encounter against Cape Town City in April.The Chloorkop-based club, who top the Absa Premiership by one point with one match in hand over second-placed Orlando Pirates, will host Chippa United in their next league appointment on April 4. African News Agency