JOHANNESBURG - Proteas seamer Kagiso Rabada will miss South Africa’s final two Tests of the series against Australia after he was suspended by the International Cricket Council. #Rabada So the match referee believes the touching of jersey sleves constitute inappropriate agression? @ICC must please respect us, we are not fools and we are aware of the power block of certain countries that they are trying to further entrench. @robertmarawa If i was @KagisoRabada25 I'll no longer shake Australian players hands bcz that a body contact too, might lose 2 points again @robertmarawa @ICC #Rabada KG was found guilty of the offence of "inappropriate and deliberate physical contact with a player", according to a Level 2 ICC Code of Conduct. The incident in question involved Australia captain Steve Smith after he was dismissed by Rabada during Australia’s first innings. So satisfying! #Rabada #ProteaFire pic.twitter.com/izTRtxFh1x Rabada has been fined 50 percent of his match fee and receives three demerit points. He had denied the charge. Warner had to be restrained from getting physical. He is still playing. Kagiso Rabada is banned for rubbing shoulders with Smith. I give up. #SAvAUS #Rabada So
		1. Starc barking in the face of De Bruyn was in the spirit of the game. (1stTest)
		2. Kohli screaming in the face of every dismissed SA batsman during the ODI series was acceptable.
		Stop picking and choosing.
		You have already lost a lot of credibility.#Rabada #SAvAUS@ICC Kagiso Rabada feels he did nothing wrong to earn a two-match suspension from the International Cricket Council. He will now will miss the rest of the series for accumulating eight demerit points within 24 months. Rabada's demerit history on @eNCAsport. Courtesy #DStv403 pic.twitter.com/KaPIox1tWH The comparison between Kohli and Rabada is fair enough. Kohli gave send-offs too. Rabada is doing the same. Yes, Kohli has gotten away, but Rabada is facing charges. It is a little unfair!#SAvAUS #Rabada I have seen countless bowlers have more hostile contact with the opposition than @KagisoRabada25 , and not even face an on-screen replay let alone a suspension. This decision is an absolute disgrace for the sport and says more about the @ICC than it does #Rabada. #AUSvsSA That was definitely a life ban for #SAvAUS matches in my opinion. Smith is going to be very lucky if he doesn't require a full shoulder reconstruction after that vicious hit.
		------------#Rabada they always have tricks up there sleeves and why is #Stevesmith not been charged as he is complaining and @KagisoRabada25 is quiet Smithy after the shirt sleeve bashing. pic.twitter.com/go7e15Sgt0 As much as I admire KG he did push it too far! However that being said the Aussies are past masters at this and there does not seem to be consistency But if you are on a warning like KG was then it’s pretty mindless to continue down that path Huge blow for us You can't break the rule of the game and come back cry foul later, as good as KG is he needs control his temper sometimes eish, rules are rules period. eNCA