FRANKFURT AM MAIN - German reinsurer Munich Re on Thursday said it planned to slash 900 jobs in coming months, as it seeks to boost profitability after a 2017 result battered by multiple natural disasters. The Bavaria-based group, whose main business is helping insurers hedge themselves against possible losses, said around a third of its expected profit growth by 2020 would be achieved through staff cuts. The remaining two thirds would be driven by higher revenues, chief executive Joachim Wenning said at a press conference. Wenning said the company aims to "reduce expenses by around 200 million euros" by 2020, mainly through job reductions. READ: Cosatu slams Pick n Pay job cuts Around half the job cuts will hit the firm's Munich headquarters, while some 450 positions will be shed abroad. Munich Re employs around 43,000 people in some 30 countries. In Germany, Wenning said the job reductions would be achieved through early and part-time retirement schemes as well as voluntary redundancies - a process that was launched three weeks ago and is slated to run for six months. News of the job cuts comes after the group earlier on Tuesday expressed confidence for the years ahead by upping its growth forecasts. It now expects to increase net profits to between 2.1 and 2.5 billion euros (R30.7-billion and R36.8-billion) this year, slightly higher than the group's original goal for 2017 before a series of disasters struck. Several hurricanes, a devastating earthquake in Mexico and other natural and man-made catastrophes ground Munich Re's profits down by 85 percent year-on-year last year, to just 375 million euros. This year, the firm "is again poised for growth," chief executive Joachim Wenning said. READ: JSE to cut 60 jobs and save R170-million Across the whole business, it estimates it will bring in between 46 and 49 billion euros in gross premiums written - the equivalent of revenue for an insurance company - in 2018. Munich Re added that it plans to buy up to one billion euros' worth of shares back from investors before its April 2019 annual general meeting. The group's optimism was welcomed by investors, with stock in the firm up 1.1 percent to trade at 183.90 euros just after 1200 GMT, outpacing the DAX index of blue-chip German shares. AFP