LUSAKA - The Zambian parliament has delayed a debate that was scheduled for Wednesday on a motion seeking to impeach President Edgar Lungu. He is accused of breaching the constitution. Zambia's main opposition party, the United Party for National Development (UPND), filed a motion last week. "In view of the gravity of the motion, the same is being studied and we shall revert to you in due course," said the letter sent on Monday from the Clerk of the National Assembly to Garry Nkombo, UPND parliamentary chief whip, who filed the motion. UPND spokesman Charles Kakoma said the motion would now not be debated until parliament's next session begins in June. READ: Zambian former cabinet minister facing graft charges: anti-corruption body Signed by a third of the 166-member house, the motion needs the backing of two-thirds of MPs to succeed. The opposition argues that Lungu violated the constitution in 2016 when it challenged his election victory in court, alleging electoral fraud, a claim the government denied. The opposition believes that under the constitution, the president should, when faced with a legal challenge of this kind, hand over power to the speaker of the National Assembly until the court makes a decision. The UPND's case against Lungu was dismissed on a technicality after its lawyers failed to provide evidence within the required time limit. Chishimba Kambwili, an MP of Lungu's ruling Patriotic Front who seconded Nkombo's motion, pleaded not guilty on Wednesday to profiting from the proceeds of crime. Chishimba Kambwili has emerged as one of the most prominent voices speaking out against Lungu, who is accused of increasingly authoritarian rule and of cracking down on dissent. Kambwili was arrested on Thursday by Zambia's Anti-Corruption Commission on suspicion of fraud. A former cabinet minister who has repeatedly accused government officials of corruption, he fell ill while in police custody and was taken to a private hospital for treatment, police and his lawyers said. He was subsequently transferred to a government hospital for continued treatment on Tuesday, they said. "I understand  the charge and plead not guilty," Kambwili told magistrate Mwaka Mikalile after she read the 34 counts he faced. Reuters