JOHANNESBURG - South African Airways (SAA) on Thursday finally held its annual general meeting (AGM) following a number of setbacks. The national carrier blamed a lack of board cohesion for delaying the implementation of its turnaround strategy. SAA suffered a net loss of R5.6-billion for the 2016/17 financial year, marking six years of financial losses and turnaround strategies. READ: SAA loses around R6bn, AG report shows The airline hopes to break even 2020 and says its latest plan can get the company out of debt. “There is a part [in the plan] that says by 2020, we will break even. We have looked at the strategy and we have remodelled [things],” SAA chief executive officer (CEO) Vuyani Jarana said. While the state-owned enterprise is setting itself ambitious targets and bold moves are needed to make it work, Finance Minister Nhlanhla Nene said the AGM was ‘long overdue’ and that cutting back on loss-making routes was likely a reality. READ: The revolving doors: Nhlanhla Nene, the return “The factors for sustainable implementation of its business plan includes, among other things, improving SAA’s internal operating environment to achieve swift operational decision making. This will involve tough decisions on the network and fleet plan. It will include reviewing loss-making routes and also reviewing the frequency of specific destinations, as determined by the market trends,” the minister said. “As you know, SAA over a number of years has experienced instability in management… which has largely resulted in the lack of implementation of various turnaround strategies,” Nene added. SAA chairperson Johannes Magwaza said the company needed to address spiraling debt or the turnaround strategy would fail. READ: SAA welcomes latest bailout “As bad as things are, this [company, SAA] remains a very strong business,” he said. “SAA has a serious debt battle. Unless the capital structure is reviewed, the debt battle will undermine any strategy of financial sustainability of any airline.” In its financials, the carrier said fruitless and wasteful expenditure, specifically related to visa fines, amounted to R40.4-million. Poor management also cost the airline a further R125.9-million. eNCA