CAPE TOWN - The nominations for the April 6 elections at the South African Rugby Union’s AGM (Annual General Meeting) closes today and there could be several surprises.
	
	Rapport, the Afrikaans weekly, reports that incumbent SA Rugby president Mark Alexander, who took over from Oregan Hoskins two years ago, will be opposed for the presidency.
	
	In the absence of official confirmation from SA Rugby, it is expected that the current president of the Leopards Rugby Union, André May, will be in the race after nominations close on Tuesday. READ: Erasmus appointed new Bok coach May, a lawyer by trade, has been in charge at the Leopards in Potchefstroom since 2010, and his term at the province ends in 2019.
	
	He is a former lock who featured in 75 matches for the previous Western Transvaal, and has been part of a number of SA Rugby committees.
	
	Speculation is that that current SA Rugby deputy president Francois Davids could also be under pressure to hold on to his seat.
	
	It is reported that he may be challenged by a former chairman of the previous SA Rugby (Pty) Ltd, Dr Jan Marais, a Griffons stalwart from Welkom.
	
	Marais served Saru for many years under Hoskins’ watch, and has apparently been approached to return to the structures as the second in command.
	
	There could be a number of new faces amongst the rest of the Saru Executive Committee as well. READ: SA Rugby and Coetzee part ways Former Springbok team manager Arthrob Petersen is in line to make a dramatic comeback to the sport, but he will face serious competition for the two Exco seats that have become available.
	
	The incumbents are former Blue Bulls president Boet Fick, who is not available for another term, and Valke boss Vivian Lottering, who will stand for re-election.
	
	Apart from Petersen, others in the running for the two positions are believed to be Western Province Rugby Union president Thelo Wakefield, former Cheetahs president Lindsay Mould and Pumas president Hein Mentz.
	
	The elections will take place in Cape Town on April 6. African News Agency