PRETORIA – Two quick-fire goals from Thabo Mnyamane in the final 12 minutes at the Lucas Moripe Stadium earned SuperSport United a 2-1 first round, second leg CAF Confederation Cup win over Angolan outfit Petro Atletico on Friday night. The result sees the South African side book their spot in the 2018 Confederation Cup group phase with a 2-1 aggregate victory after the first leg affair in Luanda had ended 0-0. SuperSport dictated matters throughout the first half and were close to scoring on several occasions. In as early as the third minute, Mnyamane tested Petro Atletico keeper Gerson Barros with a stinging drive from 25-yards out. Reneilwe Letsholonyane then set Mnyamane up for another chance in the 17th minute, but he was again kept out by Gerson. There were more chances as Dean Furman strode forward from midfield before sending powerful effort inches wide before Mnyamane was off target with a shot and a free kick. Petro Atletico came out an invigorated side in the second half and after SuperSport keeper Ronwen Williams had cleared an earlier header off his line, the Angolan team went ahead in the 49th minute when Wilson Elio stabbed in the ball from close range at the third attempt after Williams had made a double block. Matsatsantsa sprang into action as they went in search of an equaliser, but it wouldn't fall for them in front of goal as Mnyamane sent a shot straight at Gerson, before Modiba flashed one shot wide of goal and then sent a close-range volley crashing into the crossbar after a great cross from Letsholonyane. With the rain pouring down in Tshwane, SuperSport continued to pile on the pressure and they were back in the game 12 minutes from time when the visitors failed to clear a Furman free kick and Mnyamane pounced to score from 10-yards out. Sniffing blood, the home side pushed forward in numbers and they were rewarded in the 83rd minute when Mnyamane rose majestically to head home a Furman cross. Coach Kaitano Tembo's men were able to play through to full time without much issue and could even have added a third goal as they enjoyed a couple more half chances. AFP