CAPE TOWN – Orlando Pirates will have to turn their focus to the league after they exited the Nedbank Cup at the last 16 stage with a 1-0 defeat to Cape Town City at the Cape Town Stadium on Wednesday night. In a tight and entertaining game, peppered with regular goal-scoring chances, the home team had the better of the first half. But they had to hold on for their lives in the second stanza as the Sea Robbers, unlucky on several occasions not to score, came storming back. On a slippery surface, the game was played at a blistering pace and the Soweto giants were unfortunate not to go in front after just seven minutes when Justin Shonga's shot from the edge of the area struck the base of the upright and bounced across the goalmouth and back into play. At the other end, Pirates keeper Siyabonga Mpontshane was tested by a rasping drive from Ayanda Patosi, the rebound only just eluding City midfielder Roland Putsche. Mpontshane again did well to claw Thamsanqa Mkhize's header off the line in the 15th minute, before Tariq Fielies fired over from a good position in the box and Lyle Lakay saw an angled shot flash wide as the hosts continued to ask questions. Pirates, though, also had a good chance before half-time when Marshal Munetsi's curling effort from inside the box flew marginally over a goal. Seemingly energised by the heavy fog which had rolled in from the nearby Atlantic ocean during the interval, City started the second half full of intent and after Lakay had made Mpontshane scramble across his goal to keep out a skidding shot, the hosts went ahead in clinical fashion in the 55th minute as Patosi slotted home a superb first-time effort after some great work down the flank by Bradley Ralani. The visitors came fighting back and were almost back on level terms when Munetsi's header from a corner kick deflected off Teko Modise, before striking goalkeeper Sage Stephens and bouncing across the goal-line, an own goal narrowly avoided. Although City had a couple of half chances through Judas Moseamedi, the Cape team found themselves penned into their own half for much of the final 20 minutes as the Buccaneers attacked in wave after wave. Shonga looked set to level the tie with 12 minutes to go when he burst through on the right-hand side of the box, but Stephens did brilliantly to keep out the shot with his feet. It was all hands on deck in the closing moments as the Citizens' defended bravely to close out the win and book their spot in the quarter-finals. African News Agency