JOHANNESBURG - Sanlam CEO Ian Kirk is taking a 20 percent cut on his 2017 bonus, a reduction of R2.5m, as part of a company-wide trim to incentives relating to Steinhoff exposure contained in client funds. “It was the right thing to do. Sanlam clients who suffered losses on Steinhoff would be asking, ‘How are Sanlam executives suffering?’,” Kirk, who would not have been directly involved in decisions to buy Steinhoff shares, said on Thursday, following the group’s annual results. The move is highly unusual in an industry that is frequently criticised for accepting handsome performance fees when funds do well, but seldom participating in the downside to the same degree. “Asset managers derive a fee irrespective of whether a fund has performed or not,” said shareholder activist Theo Botha, an open critic of Coronation’s opaque bonus structures. READ: How Steinhoff execs cooked the books “It will be interesting to see what other asset managers do” in the light of Sanlam’s move. About 100 employees across Sanlam, including in its investments business, capital markets unit and among executives, would be affected by incentive cuts totalling R50m. Those closest to the decision to invest in Steinhoff would take the hardest hits, said Kirk, who earned R22.7m in 2017. His annual bonus would have been R12.5m, up from R11.1m in 2016, but was cut to R10m to account for Steinhoff losses. READ: JSE suspends trading of Steinhoff preference shares Although Sanlam shareholders had not suffered any losses relating to Steinhoff, the management felt executives should share the pain experienced by policyholders through their exposures in investment products, he said. No one had been “grumpy” about taking the knock along with clients. Millions of South African savers were exposed to the December collapse in Steinhoff’s share price through investments in unit trusts and retirement funds. Steinhoff plummeted after the admission of “accounting irregularities”, which prevented it from releasing full-year financial results. WATCH: Two cases of insider trading registered in Steinhoff scandal The drop – an 86 percent slide in two days that wiped R200bn off Steinhoff’s market value – also hit performance across several funds in 2017. At the time, fund managers urged investors to exercise patience when following a long-term investment approach. While share price declines are par for the course in investing, Steinhoff’s fall was unusually large. iNet Bridge