LONDON - Meghan Markle, together with her fiance Prince Harry, has chosen a fellow London-based American, pastry chef Claire Ptak, to make a lemon elderflower cake for their upcoming wedding, the couple announced Tuesday. "Prince Harry and Ms Markle have asked Ms Ptak to create a lemon elderflower cake to incorporate the bright flavours of spring," Kensington Palace, the prince's official residence in London, said in a statement. "It will be covered with buttercream and decorated with fresh flowers." The pair were "very much looking forward to sharing this cake with their wedding guests," it added. California-raised Ptak is a food writer and stylist, recipe developer and consultant, as well as the owner of the small but celebrated Violet bakery in east London. She started the business as a stall on trendy Broadway Market, before opening her cafe nearby in 2010 with a focus on using high quality, seasonal and organic ingredients. Ptak had previously worked as a pastry chef under renowned chef Alice Waters at her Chez Panisse restaurant in Berkeley, California. Elderflower sponge recipe from the @fernverrow cookbook. I love this recipe and now is the moment to make it. When I styled this book, with the amazing Jane and Harry under the direction of legendary photographer @tessatraeger I spent a few days of each season over the course of a year staying at the farm and learning about their Biodynamic practices. The fruits of their labour are indeed some of the best produce in the U.K. Support your farmers. Buy honestly grown food, in season and pay more if you have to. A post shared by  Violet By Claire Ptak (@violetcakeslondon) on "I can't tell you how delighted I am to be chosen to make Prince Harry and Ms Markle’s wedding cake," she said in the statement. "Knowing that they really share the same values as I do about food provenance, sustainability, seasonality and most importantly flavour, makes this the most exciting event to be a part of." Fellow American Markle, a former actress, used to run her own lifestyle website, and previously interviewed Ptak for her blog. She and Prince Harry will marry at St George's Chapel, Windsor Castle, a residence of Queen Elizabeth II's located west of London, on May 19. AFP