Editor's note: This live event has ended. You may watch a recording above. JOHANNESBURG - The National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) briefed Parliament on Wednesday night on the cases it is handling. Adv Govender: we started working on #Estina in August last year. We were given assurances by SAPS there were measures in place to prevent “individuals “ from leaving and we do where know they are now. We now need to look at extradition. #StateCapture NDPP head explains #StateCapture investigation is divided into 8 parts: Mentoor, Mcebisi Jonas, New Age, Eskom, Trillian, Denel, Maine and Jacob Zuma, Estina. Progress meeting on these investigations will be held on Friday 16 March. @eNCA The prosecuting authority appeared before the Standing Committee on Public Accounts (Scopa). #ShaunAbraham’s: “because of Budget cuts, the NPA has reached a state of emergency and this impedes on its ability to fulfil it’s legal and Constitutional mandate.” This particularly affects attempts to collect combat corruption and organized crime. pic.twitter.com/ucbIUZ4DjF #NDPP #ShaunAbrahams on Zuma Prosecution decision: “ I am in a position to announce my decision now. I first have to inform Mr Zuma what my decision is. Only then will I tell South Africa”. #Zuma @eNCA pic.twitter.com/874yaKhYBJ NDPP Head Shaun Abraham’s says he is not under any pressure or stress ahead of his announcement on Zuma prosecution. “This has never been a stressful decision for me.” He is in Parliament to brief MPs on State Capture cases this evening. ##ShaunAbrahams The NPA was expected to make an announcement on the prosecution of former President Jacob Zuma on Thursday. However, it now says it first has to inform relevant stakeholders of its decision before making the decision public. Breaking: NPA tells @eNCA he is likely to write to the “affected” parties and inform him of his decision on whether or not to proceed with the prosecution of former President #JacobZuma on Friday 16 March. #ShaunAbrahams On Wednesday, the Constitutional Court dismissed a bid to block Abarahams from announcing his decision. The application was brought by the Council for the Advancement of the South African Constitution. Casac argued it would be inappropriate for Abrahams to make this decision, given the uncertainty about  Abarahams' future in his job. On December 15, North Gauteng Judge President Dunstan Mlambo ruled that Abrahams' appointment was questionable. The court gave then-deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa two months to appoint a new NPA head. Zuma and the NPA appealed the ruling. READ: NPA makes decision on Zuma prosecution However, following his election as president, Ramaphosa withdrew the appeal. Zuma is facing 18 charges, including fraud and corruption. eNCA