PORT ELIZABETH – Inspired by AB de Villiers’ record sixth century against Australia and his 22nd overall, South Africa’s lower-order combined with the star batsman as they were bowled out for 382 in the first innings for lead of 139 runs on day three of the second Test in Port Elizabeth on Sunday. By the close of play Australia had reached 180/5 to take a 41-run lead in the second innings. De Villiers’ unbeaten 126 came off just 146 balls (20 fours and a six) at a rate far quicker than any other batsman had managed before he ran out of partners when Lungi Ngidi was dismissed. His six centuries against Australia puts him one ahead of the previous record he shared with two legends of the past – Graeme Pollock and Eddie Barlow – as well as two of his modern contemporaries – Jacques Kallis and Hashim Amla. STUMPS, Day 3: AUS 180/5 and lead by 41. M Marsh 39*, Paine 5*, Khawaja 75. Rabada 3/38, De Villiers 126*. #ProteaFire #SAvAUS #SunfoilTest pic.twitter.com/CtY3lyqgcU His 22nd century overall puts him one ahead of Gary Kirsten and gives him fourth position outright on South Africa’s all-time list with only Kallis, Amla and Graeme Smith ahead of him. In the first Test match the South Africa only managed to put on 12 runs for the last four wickets in the first innings and 15 in the second. The big turnaround in Port Elizabeth saw the last four wickets contribute 199 to the total. Also notable was the contribution of Kagiso Rabada as night-watchman he made to the second wicket partnership of 45 with Dean Elgar. READ: Rabada charged after Smith incident Vernon Philander (36 off 85 balls, 5 fours) and Keshav Maharaj, who later claimed the important wicket of Steve Smith (30 off 24 balls, three fours and two sixes), provided the support De Villiers needed to reach his century – the first since he restarted his Test career at the start of this season. Rabada has continued to have a good match, adding three second innings wickets so far to the five he took in the first innings. His new ball spell on Sunday was special as he bowled with pace, accuracy and hostility and was rewarded with the important wicket of David Warner. In later spells he added Shaun Marsh and Usman Khawaja to the list after the latter had shared a stand of 87 with Mitchell Marsh. Overall it was an intriguing day of Test cricket with almost 300 runs being scored for the loss of eight wickets. African News Agency