JOHANNESBURG - Trade and Industry Minister Rob Davies has formally requested that South Africa be excluded from US duties on steel and aluminium. This comes after President Donald Trump, in a presidential proclamation published late last week, temporarily exempted the EU, Canada, Mexico, Argentina, Australia, Brazil and South Korea from 25 percent tariffs on steel products and 10 percent tariffs on aluminium. As “friendly nations”, these countries have until May 1 to negotiate levies on steel and aluminium. But their exemption means South African steel exports to the US will be hit with a 25 percent duty. Paolo Trinchero, CEO of the Southern African Institute of Steel Construction, said SA’s formal submissions “will involve a substantial amount of time and money, with no guarantee of success”. He says the tariff applies to primary steel and some secondary products such as tube and pipe. Products with high value-add such as machinery are not included, Trinchero says. “I think the US approach is to flag items which are easy to classify and ring- fence. As products become more complex with substantial value-add they disappear into categories famously referred to as ‘other’,” he said. READ: Trump takes aim at $50bn in Chinese imports Trinchero said earlier in March — when Trump first announced the tariffs — that the right approach was for the US to apply to the World Trade Organisation for anti-dumping measures, bound tariff rates and safeguards, if necessary. The Department of Trade and Industry said SA’s ambassador to the US, Mninwa Mahlangu, has been engaging with White House national security council staff, the US state department and the Office of the US Trade Representative on the tariffs. Davies has also had a teleconference with Curtis Mahoney, the deputy US trade representative for investment, services, labour, environment, Africa, China and the western hemisphere. The South African Iron and Steel Institute (Saisi) said customs data show that total domestic exports of primary steel products to all countries in 2017 came to 2.4-million tonnes or about 35 percent of SA’s estimated primary steel output of six million tonnes. The value of these exports was about R26-billion. The US makes up only about 10 percent of this. Saisi’s Abri Audie said according to Trump’s proclamation, steel including ingots, blooms, billets, slabs, coils, plates, sheets, bars, rail accessories, structural shapes, pipe, wire and many other steel product types are affected. Davies, in his submission to US authorities, emphasised that South African exports of aluminium products to the US each year are equal to about 1.6 percent of that country’s total aluminium imports. These products consist of specialised aluminium sheet, coil and plate for processing in the US automotive, battery and aerospace industries. Hulamin CEO Richard Jacob says South African exporters to the US “are likely to be disadvantaged” depending on who they compete with in the exempted countries. The group is an aluminium beneficiator that supplies electric vehicle maker Tesla among other USbased industries. “The tariff codes include both primary aluminium and certain other categories of processed aluminium,” Jacob says. But what this might mean in terms of SA’s automotive exports to the US “is still unclear”, he says. iNet Bridge