JOHANNESBURG – Record breaking world champion, Caster Semenya, has broken SA’s national record and won gold at the Commonwealth Games for 1,500m race. Semenya set and broke the standing record in 4:00.71. WATCH: Caster Semenya broke Zola Budd’s 1500m national record when she won GOLD --for South Africa ---- in a time of 4:00.71.#CommonwealthGames pic.twitter.com/IzC0xyQTm2 Sports analysts say that the downpour of rain before the race and the faulty starter gun before the race created dampening conditions for the women competing in the 1,500m distance race. Semenya was out-rightly dominant even though the race was 10-mins behind schedule. READ: Caster Semenya wins gold, breaks 1500m Commonwealth Games record She overtook Kenya’s Beatrice Chepkoech, who finished second and Melissa Courtney from wales finished third. Gold medalist Caster Semenya of South Africa, silver medalist Beatrice Chepkoech of Kenya and bronze medal Melissa Courtney of Wales at the 2018 Commonwealth Games. [REUTERS / Paul Childs] This was Semenya’s first Commonwealth Games and she has dominated the Olympics women’s 800m. Semenya, has been nominated for the Laureus World Sports Woman of the Year award. Semenya told The Guardian, “As a middle-distance runner I have done enough for my collection but this is for me, country and for the youth, we are inspiring the youth, we just want to show them they can do it.” Tweeters and South African fans congratulated Semenya for flying the South African flag high. I don't see no reason why a Toyota Quantum shouldn't be called a Caster Semenya. She earned it, just like Zola Budd did! pic.twitter.com/b646SWrns6 Watching caster semenya --------She's more than goals... pic.twitter.com/iRKvXW7tF8 It think they should name a train after the great caster semenya
		Congratulations caster pic.twitter.com/QLEfjdahod Caster Semenya outchea breaking long-standing records like it ain't no thing. #BlackExcellence ✊-- Congratulations Mokgadi Caster Semenya! You always make us proud.. Mzansi is always behind you... Zola Pieterse/ Budd is also proud of you 4 breaking her long standing record ✊------#GoldCoast2018 #CommonwealthGames2018 #CommonwealthGames pic.twitter.com/aOgi4Dk59u Caster Semenya won the 1500m too and break the #CommonwealthGames2018 record for 1500m #800m queen. Made us proud❤ pic.twitter.com/l88XNONlym Caster Semenya finally breaks Zola Budd’s national record pic.twitter.com/IiuFDhKI9K Everytime i see Caster Semenya trending m already celebrating ------ pic.twitter.com/6jcrm74atF Caster Semenya breaks new record to win GOLD #CommonwealthGames2018 #TeamSA ------------❤ pic.twitter.com/Zsb7J0r3Of eNCA