CAPE TOWN – Relegation-threatened SuperSport United remain perilously perched just above the drop zone after a 0-0 league draw with Cape Town City at the Cape Town Stadium on Saturday night.
	 
	Matsatsantsa, who have not scored in their last five matches, are just two points above Ajax Cape Town and could find themselves in the relegation zone if the Urban Warriors win away at Chippa United on Sunday.
	 
	In a game in which both sides hit the woodwork, the first half never really moved beyond the first couple of gears. The visiting side were particularly lack-lustre in this period, although they did show more urgency after halftime. The Cape team were not a whole lot better but did at least have some chances and they were unfortunate not to score in the 18th minute when Craig Martin cut in from the left flank and crashed a thunderous drive into the crossbar before Tariq Fielies shot over from the rebound.
	 
	There was also a good opportunity for Thabo Nodada, back on the field and bandaged up after a head injury, but he stabbed a volley wide with the goal at his mercy and goalkeeper Ronwen Williams out of position, eight minutes before the interval.
	 
	The game remained tight after the restart, with little more than half chances for City striker Judas Moseamedi and his Matsatsantsa counterparts Evans Rusike and Aubrey Modiba, who all fired off target.
	 
	There was work to do though for Citizens keeper Sage Stephens in the 65th minute when he pulled off an outstanding save to keep out Modiba's pile-driver before Thuso Phala squeezed a shot just wide of the post as the Pretoria team stepped their efforts up.
	 
	SuperSport then came even closer as Clayton Daniels powered a 73rd-minute header into the upright from a corner kick.
	 
	The Tshwane team continued to push for openings, but it was City who should have won the match eight minutes from time when Martin's cross picked out Surprise Ralani at the back post, but from just a few yards out, he scooped his shot over the goal.
	 
	The result extends SuperSport's winless to seven matches, and they have just three games left to rescue their season. African News Agency