SINGAPORE – The Blitzboks made a solid start at the Singapore Sevens on Saturday when they first beat Samoa and then outclassed Canada 26-12 in their second match to go top of the Pool C standings. Hero of the Blitzboks' victory was Selvyn Davids, who scored a brace against Canada. The Blitzboks had to fight hard for their victory, using their speed and class against a physical Canadian side. South Africa were under the whip early in the game after Andrew Coe scored the first try. READ: Shock as Blitzboks fail to medal at Commonwealth Games But moments later, the Blitzboks tapped a free-kick on the halfway line and Zain Davids went on a run. Once the cover defence moved in he slipped the ball wide to Siviwe Soyizwapi, who finished off in the corner. It was then the turn of Cecil Africa who was next in when he made a dash for the line to give his side the lead at halftime. South Africa took their foot off the pedal after the restart and allowed Canada to hit back through speedster Tevaughn Campbell who finished in the right corner to make it a two-point game. But the Blitzboks held their nerve under pressure. The tricky Davids scored two breakaway tries late in the game to seal the victory which sent South Africa at the top of pool standings with one game to go on Saturday. Blitzboks v Samoa The Blitzboks had  earlier opened their Singapore account with a 26-5 win over Samoa. They scored four tries to beat Samoa 26-5 on Day 1 of the Singapore Sevens in their opening Pool C match. Drawn in a pool alongside Argentina, Canada and Samoa, the Blitzboks took the lead against the run of play, when they won a scrum on Samoa’s feed. Werner Kok secured possession and cantered away down the blindside for a converted try to put them 7-0 up at the break. In the second half, South Africa got turnover possession from which they scored through Siviwe Soyizwapi. Trailing 12-0, Samoa were finally rewarded for their dominance when captain Alamanda Motuga breached the defence to touch down. The Blitzboks, though, were more clinical in their execution towards the backend of the match, as they ran in two unanswered tries to seal the win. A penalty at the breakdown was taken quickly by Cecil Afrika and he released replacement Rosko Specman down the right flank and he pulled off a spectacular dive to score in the corner. Youngster Muller du Plessis got his name on the scoresheet next, showing excellent vision, skill and strength to dot down in the corner. African News Agency