JOHANNESBURG - Nedbank Cup sponsors have distanced itself from the violence that played out on Saturday night when fans went on the rampage in the semifinal match between Kaizer Chiefs and Free State Stars at Durban's Moses Mabhida Stadium. Nedbank issued a statement on Tuesday morning, saying they will take the necessary steps to eradicate any form of hooliganism from the beautiful game of football. About four fires have been started!! #NedbankCup pic.twitter.com/y7xqLreNQN Nedbank's statement reads: "Like many South Africans, we at Nedbank are deeply disturbed by the unruly behaviour of certain groups of spectators that attacked security guards and destroyed broadcasting equipment at the semifinal match on Saturday between Kaizer Chiefs and Free State Stars. READ: Kaizer Chiefs charged for Moses Mabhida violence "We are encouraged by the swift response of the South African Police Service who have already confirmed the arrests of two people in connection with these unlawful acts. "As proud sponsors of the Nedbank Cup since 2008, we’ve used the platform to position Nedbank as the bank for all South Africans and to use our financial expertise to do good for individuals, families, businesses and society. This is disappointing --#NedbankCup pic.twitter.com/FtL9E4gyzP "As a result, the Nedbank brand cannot be associated with the acts of violence that was on display for all to see. We are confident, though, that the Premier Soccer League is working with safety and security stakeholders READ: Kaizer Chiefs appeal to fans to end hooliganism "We don’t tolerate any acts of violence against any member of society and we all have to remind ourselves of our responsibility to uphold the values of our country, and the examples that we set for our youth. "We would like to wish all of those affected by the incident a speedy recovery and we are thankful that there are no fatal casualties as a result of the senseless acts. #BTMSports
		
		BREAKING!
		
		Steve Komphela has resigned with immediate effect as head coach of Kaizer Chiefs.
		
		Bobby Motaung confirmed the news in a press conference at Moses Mabhida.
		following Chiefs 2-0 defeat to Free State Stars in the #NedbankCup SF
		
		pic.twitter.com/sjsoWOrLqZ "We will be working closely with the PSL to do a full investigation on the incidents that occurred, and we will take the necessary actions to avoid the same from happening again. "Finally, we would like to congratulate Free State Stars and Maritzburg United for progressing to their first-ever Nedbank Cup final, and we look forward to an exciting football match and a spectacular event on Saturday, May 19, at the Cape Town Stadium, with the winner set to represent the country in the CAF Confederation Cup." African News Agency