JOHANNESBURG - SA Football Association (Safa) president Danny Jordaan has promised Morocco that South Africa will give its unqualified support to secure another World Cup on the African continent in 2026. Morocco is vying to stage the world’s biggest football prize against a joint bid by Canada, Mexico and the US. Moroccan bid representatives, former Cameroonian goalkeeper Joseph-Antoine Bell and ex-Senegalese international El Hadji Diouf visited SAFA to get the country’s blessing for their 2026 bid and were given invaluable insights by 2010 CEO and SAFA President Dr Jordaan & team. pic.twitter.com/txqRF1MoIh The Moroccan delegation comprises ex-Senegal and Liverpool striker El Hadji Diouf and former Cameroonian goalkeeper Joseph-Antoine Bell. Jordaan said it would be great for Africa to have a second bite of the World Cup cherry, adding Morocco’s bid was Africa’s bid. READ: Diouf: Bafana will benefit if more SA players play overseas “It is an old myth that Africa doesn’t have the capacity, and naysayers should stop using the political argument. Africa hosted the best Fifa World Cup ever and with good support, Morocco can emulate South Africa,” said the Safa president. Jordaan assured Morocco that he would personally lobby for the Council for Southern Africa Football Associations (Cosafa) and the rest of the continent to rally behind the Moroccans. In his remarks, Antoine Bell said Morocco had all the ingredients to host another spectacular World Cup. “South Africa showed the way and I am confident Morocco will follow suit. The country has international standards, from the stadiums to top infrastructure. Morocco can compete with the best in the world,” he said. READ: Pele confident Neymar can lead Brazil at World Cup By giving Morocco its support, South Africa’s voice would make all the difference on the continent, Bell said. “When South Africa talks on the continent, the rest of the continent listens hence it is vital for South Africa to support Morocco. South Africa has the experience and Morocco will use this experience to win the 2016 bid,” added Bell. African News Agency