MOGADISHU - Islamist insurgents battled for hours on Sunday with African Union troops after exploding a car bomb outside their base, Somali police, military and the militants said. Al Shabaab militants attacked the African Union (AU) peacekeepers' base in the town Bulamarer, 130 kilometres southwest of the capital Mogadishu, around 9am. local time, residents from the area told Reuters. READ: Al-Shabaab kill five police in northeast Kenya: official Since withdrawing from Mogadishu in 2011, the al Qaeda-linked group has lost control of most of Somalia's cities and towns. But it still retains a strong presence in regions outside the capital. The militants initially detonated two suicide car bombs that hit one AU vehicle and one Somali military vehicle, Somali army major Farah Osman, who is stationed near the AMISOM (African Union Mission in Somalia) base, said. "Then a large number of Shabaab fighters began firing from under the trees ... it was a hellish battle," he said, adding there was an unknown number of casualties. Militants on foot then attacked nearby villages, said Ali Nur, deputy governor of the Lower Shabelle region where the base is located. "They were repulsed, but all these attacks were to stop reinforcement." READ: Four killed in Mogadishu car bomb attack The phone of the spokesman for the AMISOM force based in Mogadishu was switched off on Sunday and Reuters was unable to reach any other officials from the force for comment. Abdiasis Abu Musab, a spokesman for Shabaab said 14 of the group's fighters and 59 AMISOM troops were killed in the incident. Nur, the government official, said no soldiers from the Somali army were killed and was not sure if any AMISOM troops were killed. A police major stationed in a nearby town also said two car bombs exploded outside the base before the Shabaab fighters entered it. Major Nur Ali told Reuters that Somali and AMISOM forces had attacked Shabaab in rural areas near the base on Saturday night. "Then Shabaab attacked this morning as a revenge," he said. Somalia has been mired in civil war since 1991. Reuters