CAPE TOWN – The 93rd minute from Ajax Cape Town captain Mosa Lebusa earned his side a vital three points with a 1-0 Premiership win over Baroka FC at the Athlone Stadium on Tuesday night. #AbsaPrem - RESULTS:
		
		Golden Arrows 3-1 Kaizer Chiefs
		Ajax Cape Town 1-0 Baroka FC
		Bloemfontein Celtic 0-0 Chippa United#SSDiski pic.twitter.com/5laHxAoYBa The result sees Muhsin Ertugral's team moving two points above SuperSport, who now find themselves in the relegation zone ahead of their match against Free State Stars on Wednesday. The match began in lively fashion as Lebusa went close with a header from a third-minute corner before Yannick Zakri's 12th minute headed attempt brought out an excellent save from Baroka keeper Ayanda Dlamini. However, the remainder of the first half saw both sides enjoying some good passages of play, yet failing to pose much of a threat in and around the opposition box. There was another opportunity three minutes before the break, again for the home team, but after being picked out in the box by Mario Booysen, Zakri sent a 43rd-minute header wide of the target. The Urban Warriors, sensing the urgency of picking up all three points, started the second half with purpose and it took another fine save from Dlamini in the 65th minute to keep Ajax off the score-sheet after he denied substitute Samuel Julies from close range. The action heated up as Julies had a 73rd-minute penalty appeal turned down before Lucky Nguzana had a shot blocked, and Mduduzi Mdatsane fired an effort over for Baroka. Talent Chawapiwa also went close for the visitors with a long-range attempt before Sergio Kammies wasted a gilt-edged chance for Ajax when he dragged an 81st-minute shot wide of goal. More followed as Zakri failed to hit the target from close range in the 87th minute before Tashrique Morris' header was brilliantly saved by Dlamini. But the Cape side's persistence paid off right the death when Dlamini was unable to grab a cross and Lebusa headed home what just might prove to be the goal which keeps Ajax afloat in the top division. African News Agency