PRETORIA – Mamelodi Sundowns took a step closer towards league title success as they beat Golden Arrows 1-0 in an Absa Premiership match played at Loftus Versfeld in Pretoria on Tuesday evening. The victory increases the Chloorkop-based side's unbeaten run to 15 matches and restores their 6-point lead over 2nd-placed Orlando Pirates at the top of the log, although Sundowns have played one match more. Pitso Mosimane's charges went ahead in the 38th minute, when Arrows' Zolani Nkomeblo brought down Sundowns striker Sibusiso Vilakazi in the penalty area and central defender Ricardo Nascimento scored from the spot-kick. READ: Sundowns looking to cement top spot in the league The hosts were unlucky not to have been two goals to the good by this stage, after Gaston Sirino's shot had seen his effort rebound off of the Arrows goal-post as early as the 2nd minute. Arrows will feel hard done by that they should have had a penalty in the 80th minute when Sundowns defender Tyron Arendse seemed to infringe on Arrows' substitute Velemseni Ndwandwe. It may have been a case of justice serve after Sundowns striker Percy Tau was upended in the Arrows penalty area early in the first half with no penalty kick given. It's all over from Loftus Versfeld, hard earned three points for the Brazilians. #Sundowns #DownsLive#AbsaPrem pic.twitter.com/wg625C70oa Had Sundowns been on-song on the night, they could have won by a handful of goals or more, and while the Arrows defence did well to hold their own, Vilakazi, Sirino and Tau will know that they all should have made it on to the score-sheet on one or more occasions. READ: Pirates beat Amazulu to close in on Sundowns lead Tau did place the ball in the back of the Arrows net three minutes before the end of the match but was adjudged to have handled the ball in the process, hence the goal was disallowed. #AbsaPrem - HALFTIME:
		
		Mamelodi Sundowns 1-0 Golden Arrows#SSDiski pic.twitter.com/m5thIvbejR With just three league matches remaining, Sundowns, now on 55 points from 27 games, look well on course for the league trophy and will turn their attention to Nedbank Cup semifinal action this weekend, when they travel to face in-form Maritzburg United on Sunday. Arrows, who remain on 31 points from 27 games, will be at home to Kaizer Chiefs in their next league fixture on Tuesday. African News Agency