UNITED KINGDOM – Manchester City's Premier League title celebrations were put on hold as rivals Manchester United produced a remarkable comeback from two goals down to win their derby clash 3-2 at the Etihad Stadium on Saturday. A win for City would have clinched the title but instead their first home defeat in the league this season leaves Pep Guardiola's side with a 13 point lead with six games remaining. READ: Liverpool apologise to Man City after bottles thrown at team bus City left several regular starters on the bench ahead of Tuesday's Champions League quarter-final second leg against Liverpool. Nonetheless, they were 2-0 up within half an hour thanks to a Vincent Kompany header from a corner and a clever finish from Ilkay Guendogan. But two goals from Paul Pogba in the 53rd and 55th minutes brought United level before Chris Smalling, left unmarked in the box, grabbed the winner in the 69th minute - side-footing home a floated free kick from Alexis Sanchez. City felt they should have had a penalty when substitute Sergio Aguero went down under a challenge from Ashley Young. They also came close to an equaliser when David de Gea made a brilliant save to keep out a header from Aguero and Raheem Sterling hit the post. Manchester City vs Manchester United - Etihad Stadium, Manchester, Britain - April 7, 2018 Manchester City's Gabriel Jesus in action with Manchester United's Antonio Valencia and Scott McTominay. [REUTERS / Russell Cheyne] Manchester City's Belgian defender Vincent Kompany (L) celebrates scoring the opening goal during the English Premier League football match between Manchester City and Manchester United at the Etihad Stadium in Manchester, north west England, on April 7. [Ben STANSALL / AFP] Manchester City's German midfielder Ilkay Gundogan (R) celebrates scoring his team's second goal with Manchester City's English midfielder Raheem Sterling during the English Premier League football match. [Ben STANSALL / AFP] Manchester City fans hold up placards showing the faces of Manchester City's Spanish manager Pep Guardiola (R) and Manchester United's Portuguese manager Jose Mourinho (L) during the English Premier League football match, on 7 April 2018. [Ben STANSALL / AFP] Soccer Football - Premier League - Manchester City vs Manchester United - Etihad Stadium, Manchester, Britain - April 7, 2018 Manchester United's Paul Pogba is shown a yellow card by referee Martin Atkinson. [REUTERS / Russell Cheyne] Manchester United's French midfielder Paul Pogba scores their second goal to equalise 2-2 during the English Premier League football match between Manchester City and Manchester United at the Etihad Stadium in Manchester, on 7 April 2018. [Ben STANSALL / AFP] Manchester City football fans react as they watch the English Premier League football match between Manchester City and Manchester United in a pub near the Etihad Stadium in Manchester, north west England, on April 7, 2018. [Lindsey PARNABY / AFP] Soccer Football - Premier League - Manchester City vs Manchester United - Etihad Stadium, Manchester, Britain - April 7, 2018 Manchester United's Romelu Lukaku and team mates celebrate after the match.REUTERS / Russell Cheyne] eNCA