NEW YORK - A day after releasing one of the most eagerly awaited rap debut albums in recent years, rapper Cardi B made another splash -- revealing she is pregnant. The fast-rising 25-year-old star showed off an unambiguous baby bump as she appeared on weekly comedy show "Saturday Night Live," becoming a top trending item on social media. In a teasing confirmation to persistent pregnancy rumours, Cardi B took the stage twice on "Saturday Night Live," first concealing her body with a fulsome feather boa as she performed her breakout single "Bodak Yellow". When she returned to rap "Be Careful," a track off her debut album "Invasion of Privacy" that came out on Friday, Cardi B donned a body-hugging white dress and smiled knowingly as the lights shone on her protruding belly. Cardi B officially reveals she's pregnant wow that's nice  pic.twitter.com/puefHHwywT Cardi B is engaged to Offset of rap trio Migos, who shortly after his fiancee's television appearance confirmed the pregnancy on Instagram, writing, "We feel so blessed." C A R D I A N D I L O O K F O R W A R D T O O U R N E X T C H A P T E R T O G E T H E R pic.twitter.com/C1QizKV3Cb Cardi B, a Bronx native whose real name is Belcalis Almanzar, has quickly found stardom with her hard-driving rhymes that unsentimentally tell a story of a rough life that included a stint as a stripper. WATCH: Migos Offset proposes to Cardi B on stage "Bodak Yellow," released less than a year ago, made her one of the most-watched names in rap -- a genre dominated by men and, often, by machismo. She raked in top prizes including single of the year at last year's BET Hip-Hop Awards, leading to high anticipation for her debut album -- and she is not letting the pregnancy slow her down. The rapper is due to perform next weekend at Coachella, the premier US music festival -- whose top headliner Beyonce pushed back her appearance by one year as she gave birth to twins in 2017. The gossip site TMZ earlier reported that Cardi B is due to give birth in early July. AFP