JOHANNESBURG – President Cyril Ramaphosa has cut short his trip to London, where he has been attending the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting, to deal with the violent protests that rocked Mahikeng on Wednesday and Thursday. In a statement sent out on Thursday night, the presidency said Ramaphosa "noted, with serious concern, reports of protest and clashes between protesters and police in the North-West Province." He "called for calm and adherence to the rule of law in the province and has called on all aggrieved parties to express their grievances through peaceful means and engagement rather than violence and anarchy." Ramaphosa is set to visit the province on Friday, along with ANC leaders. WATCH: North West authorities try to reopen blocked roads into Mahikeng The ANC said the president will address an urgent meeting convened with structures of the party, its leagues, the tripartite alliance and the ANC Caucus. Earlier on Thursday, looting continued unabated in Lonely Park, north of Mahikeng, as youngsters used catapults to loop stones at the police along Nelson Mandela Drive near the Hotel School. They used corrugated iron sheets as shields as they pelted the police with stones. WATCH: North West protests rooted in deep political divisions The police fired rubber bullets and teargas to dispersed the raging youngsters and in the mist of a cat and mouse game between them and the police -- a truck parked at Agri-Market in Lonely Park was petrol bombed. Firefighters were called to extinguish the blaze under police guard. Some members of the police went into the township to disperse pockets of protesters who had blocked the roads with branches and rocks. Residents of Mahikeng and surrounding villages shut down the capital of the province, demanding that Premier Supra Mahumapelo resign. In his statement, the president also called on law-enforcement agencies "to exercise maximum restraint in (the) execution of their duties to return calm and normality to the province." - Additional reporting by eNCA African News Agency