JOHANNESBURG - Fans of Skepta were in high spirits even before the London musician took the stage at Fox Junction, Newtown on the weekend. Joseph Junior Adenuga aka Skepta, is a Grime rap star from the United Kingdom. Skeppy is another nickname of the UK's grime artist, rapper, songwriter, record producer and music video director. Brb Skepta landed in Johannesburg last week for the annual Red Bull Music Festival. He had his fans in a jolly mood when he took to stage to perform songs from his platinum-selling album, Konnichiwa --which features the likes of Pharrell Williams and ASAP Mob. Skepta performs hit singles from his platinum selling album, Konnichiwa https://t.co/l4ULe65FnY @Skepta Thank You.
		#RBMJHB
		: Wayne Reiche pic.twitter.com/kW8Jmv9vET The rap star was born in London to Nigerian parents, and has a very significant love for his African heritage and has been recently honored as a chief in Nigeria. Thank you to the Baale, Chiefs of Odo Aje and King for presenting me with my Chieftaincy title today. I am honoured and will continue to put time and love into Nigeria, especially the community of Odo Aje. Love @greatnessdex @lashhofficial @nostressuk @realionaire1st @ella.dror @graceladoja Mum, Dad and everybody in attendance for an unforgettable day. Big Love, Joseph Olaitan Adenuga Jnr - Chief Amuludun Of Odo Aje #BBKAfrica A post shared by  Skepta (@skeptagram) on Skepta reigns as the UK grime rap star ever since the beginning stages of grime rap in the early 2000’s. He debuted his first album Greatest Hits back in 2007 and followed up with Microphone Champion (2009), Doin' It Again (2011) and Blacklisted (2012). His first huge international collaboration was with the prolific music producer Puff Daddy on the hit record Hello, Good Morning. P. Diddy (Dirty Money) feat. Skepta – "Hello Good Morning Grime Remix"
		
		https://t.co/0WmRlHWlUQ pic.twitter.com/MZW2ZSV8Ml Drake and Skepta are also known to be good friends. Drake reportedly brought out Skepta during his Wireless set in 2015 and Skepta returned the favour at a Section Boyz show in 2016 and he was the first international artist to be signed to Skepta’s Boy Better Know record label. *Watch full video of Skepta’s performance in the gallery above. eNCA