JOHANNESBURG – South African 400m-hurdles record holder LJ van Zyl has decided to put his spikes away for good, bringing to an end an athletics career that spanned 17 years and included winning medals at three Commonwealth Games and two World Championships. Van Zyl said the main reason he had decided to retire is that he no longer has 'butterflies' ahead of races. “I had a wonderful career. There were magic moments on the track. For me, athletics has always been about more than just winning and clocking fast times. "Through my travels from race to race, I got to see the world and meet wonderful people. Some of them will be friends for life. “Every athlete knows that feeling that when you line up to race, it feels as if butterflies are fluttering in your stomach. The time has arrived to say goodbye to athletics. Its been a great journey for the last 23 years of my life. Thanks to all my sponsors, coaches and friends. @BestmedScheme @adidasrunning @TuksSport #farewell #400mhurdles #4x400m pic.twitter.com/g82IvCCE76 "That moment is all about a sense of excitement, adrenaline and nervousness as you never know how your race is going to play out. "That feeling has gone. On the last few occasions, I felt nothing. I just raced going through the motions. READ: Van Zyl runs third sub-49 of season "I always said to myself that I would never just race for the sake of racing. Don’t get me wrong I am still passionate about athletics, especially the 400m-hurdles, but the magic has gone. “The other reason I am retiring is that our second son will be born in June.” LJ van Zyl's fastest times each year since 2002. He clocked an average season's best of 48.68 in a career that spanned 17 years. Remarkable pic.twitter.com/j1R1Kgu6WD Van Zyl said athletics has changed his life for the better. “Athletics helped me overcome polio, and I got to meet my wife, Irvette, in 2004 at the South African Junior Championships in Bloemfontein.” Van Zyl plans to remain active in athletics as a mentor and coach. “I feel that I can be a mentor to young athletes and not necessary only track and field athletes. "One of the most important things the youngsters should realise that it is nice to be fast and be a champion but it is not going to last forever. If you are lucky you might be competitive for five to 10 years. "Young athletes need to ask themselves what they are going to do when they retire. Throughout my athletic career, I was studying. I am currently busy with my master’s degree. "Every athlete should think about studying,” said the Tuks athlete. How's this stat: LJ van Zyl first dipped under 50 seconds (400mH) when he was 16. He has gone under 49.50 every season for 15 years in a row Athletes are often faced with testing challenges and Van Zyl cautions that sometimes the situation calls for patience. “I wanted to retire in 2010 as I was struggling. I won gold at the national and the African champs. In all other races, I was struggling to find form, but then I surprised myself by winning the silver at the Commonwealth Games. " It made me realise that I still had what it takes to beat the best, so I carried on," said Van Zyl. In 17 years there were many highlights but his South African record-breaking attempt in 2011 at Tuks was among his favourite moments. He clocked 47.66s. Another highlight was dipping under 48 seconds for the first time. “I was already running 48.05s in 2005 but I had to work another four years before I could break 48 seconds. I only got to do so in 2009 in Monaco when I ran 47.94s.” Van Zyl considers American Bershawn Jackson his toughest rival. “Bershawn frustrated me. Not only because he is so much smaller than me, but he also has a bad hurdling technique. "Still he was victorious on most occasions when we raced. I don’t hold it against him. We are still good friends.” In his career, Van Zyl managed to clock an astonishing 108 sub 49.50s races in the 400m-hurdles. It is the benchmark for a good 400m-hurdler. He has gone under 49 seconds on 68 occasions and dipped under 48 seconds on six occasions. In 2002 he was the World Junior Champion; in 2006 he won a gold medal at the Melbourne Commonwealth Games as well as helping the SA 4x400m-relay win silver; in 2010 he won a silver medal at the Commonwealth Games; in 2011 in Daegu he won a bronze medal at the World Championships and again helped the SA 4x400m-relay to win a silver medal. African News Agency