JOHANNESBURG - Twitter users were conflicted on Wednesday about whether or not to feel sorry for Khloe Kardashian in light of revelations that her boyfriend has been cheating on her while she is pregnant. Entertainment website TMZ  published surveillance footage of Kardashian's boyfriend, Tristan Thompson, in a hookah lounge outside Washington DC with two women. He kisses one of them. Hot on the heels of TMZ's report, theshaderoom.com published more footage of him entering a hotel with one of the women he was seen with in the surveillance video. In 2016, Thompson, a basketball player, left his pregnant girlfriend, Jordan ‘Jordy C’ Craig, to be with Kardashian  - he didn’t even show up at Craig's baby shower. Craig posted a response on Instagram on the latest saga, calling for mutual respect.  Blogger Perez Hilton posted an article saying Thompson is a "serial cheater" and that his friends are not surprised at the latest revelations. Twitter has echoed this sentiment, with users split between sympathy for Kardashian and feeling that there is a sense of karma at play. Didn't Tristan leave a pregnant woman for Khloe. Now he cheating on Khloe while she pregnant.
		
		My mama told me you lose em the same way you got em. Tristan Thompson only doing to khloe what him and khloe did to His ex Fiancé and babymoms Jordy. It’s called karma honey. Imagine actually feeling bad. pic.twitter.com/5qF9jskpK7 Tristian left his pregnant girlfriend to be with Khloe and now people are shocked that he’s cheating on Khloe while she’s pregnant. Lolllllll To think Khloe was finally happy about being pregnant after being told for years she could never have children for Tristan Thompson to throw it all away so easily wow men really ain’t shit Actually feel so sorry for Khloe Kardashian, imagine being ready to give birth and finding out you’ve been cheated on the whole way through I feel SO sorry for Khloe Kardashian. Everything was going so well for her, she’s ready to have her first baby any day and then Tristan cheats on her?!. Wtf is wrong with men. Give her a break eNCA