RUSTENBURG - There will be no South African Federation of Trade Unions (Saftu) march in the riotous North West province, the trade union federation said on Tuesday. "There will be no march in North West due to the ongoing protest in the province, Saftu felt that for safety reasons there should be no protest march in Rustenburg, Mahikeng and Klerksdorp, instead we are going to join the march in Johannesburg. We do not want the march to be hijacked like the bus strike when it started," said Saftu North West convener Puseletso Molise. He said the bus strike was hijacked in Mahikeng on April 18. On the same day the bus strike started, residents in Montshioa went on a rampage blocking roads and they torched a bus, demanding that North West Premier Supra Mahumapelo should resign. The protest spilled over to other villages and Mahikeng was locked down within three days, shops were looted and properties including vehicles were torched. Saftu will embark on a general strike on Wednesday, in protest against the proposed national minimum wage of R20 an hour and changes to labour laws, which would require that workers must be balloted before they embark on strike. The marches would be in Johannesburg, Cape Town, Port Elizabeth, East London, Queenstown, Bloemfontein, Polokwane and Durban. He said over 40 minibus taxi would transport workers from North West to join the march in Johannesburg. "We cannot use buses, there is a strike in the sector," he said to the laughter of bus drivers who attended a meeting for the final touches of the national strike. Talks to end the national bus strike continued late on Tuesday as Labour Minister Mildred Oliphant, bus drivers and companies were still trying to thrash out a pay rise that everyone will agree to. Members of SA Transport and Allied Workers Union (Satawu), the National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa (Numsa), the Transport and Allied Workers Union of South Africa (Tawusa) and the Transport and Omnibus Workers Union went on strike on April 18 in a pushing for a better salary. Workers want a 9.5 percent salary increase in the first year and nine percent in the second year. They initially wanted 12 percent while employers offered seven percent. Talks to end the bus strike reached a deadlock at the Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration and Oliphant was brought in to help. African News Agency