JOHANNESBURG - eMedia is proud to bring Pascale Lamche’s award-winning documentary Winnie to the small screen this week. This illuminating work brings fresh perspective and insight into the life of the anti-apartheid activist and human rights advocate Nomzamo Winnie Madikizela-Mandela. The documentary won a Sundance Award in 2017. Winnie explores Mandikizela-Mandela’s contribution to the struggle against apartheid from inside the country and includes interviews with Madikizela-Mandela herself, those who were closest to her, and those who sought to extinguish her radical capacity to shake up the order of things. "With acquisition of the rights to Winnie, the eMedia Group is proud to contribute to the collective understanding of our history, as we continue to do every day in our various media properties,"  says eMedia Holdings CEO says Andre van der Veen. "We are particularly excited to be able to offer this award-winning production to our OpenView viewers as part of our commitment to bringing high-quality content to our free-to-air satellite platform. We have also made a library of our key Winnie Mandela interviews and stories available on our YouTube channel so that our viewers are able to watch these enlightening interviews at their convenience." The passage of time often distorts as much as it allows for better insight into the past. We hope this documentary will help many confirm what they already know, gain new insight into what they have long believed to help inform how we remember Winnie Madikizela Mandela. @eNCA pic.twitter.com/qgavEjedyd Mapi Mhlangu, MD and editor-in-chief of eNCA says:"In South Africa we have lived through turbulent times, and coming to terms with that history is often difficult. The passage of time often distorts as much as it allows for better insight into the past.  Making sense of that past remains absolutely key to imagining a better future, though. In that spirit we hope that this documentary will help many South Africans confirm what they already know, gain new insight into what they have long believed about our collective history, but also, to help inform how we remember someone as important to our history as Nomzamo Winnie Madikizela Mandela. "The life of this singular woman is indeed humbling, and holds many lessons for those of us who have benefited from her work over her long life," says Mhlangu. Marlon Davids, e.tv’s head of channels, says: "We look forward to scheduling Winnie on e.tv and on Openview to enable South Africans to see this excellent film in their numbers." Lamche’s account of the political life of Madikizela-Mandela includes fascinating archival footage, extensive interviews with her, her daughter Zindzi, and those who sought her downfall. Though firmly on the side of Winnie, this film nonetheless offers a unique perspective of recent South African history. In the process, it restores Madikizela-Mandela as a key figure in the liberation of South Africa. The documentary will premiere on eNCA on Wednesday, 11 April, at 9pm, after which it will broadcast to all South Africans on e.tv and OpenView. eNCA