JOHANNESBURG – El Derbi madrileño (The Madrid Derby) is the Spanish name given to football matches played between Real Madrid and Atlético Madrid, with the next fixture scheduled for this Sunday, April 8. Back in November of 1947, Real Madrid played at Estadio Metropolitano, then home stadium of their city rivals Atlético Madrid. It was a league fixture they would lose 5-0, until this day their biggest ever defeat to Atlético. But that day, Real Madrid did something then unprecedented in Spanish football, their eleven players on the pitch wore numbers on their backs. It’s been more than 68 years since, and shirt numbers have come to take on an important role in the dressing rooms of the two Madrid sides. Each number has a history of its own, of historic players who’ve worn it before. eNCA.com takes a look at shirt numbers that had the biggest impact on the two Madrid outfits. Atlético Madrid number 7 Today at Atlético, the number seven shirt is worn by the team’s top goalscorer Antoine Griezmann.  Former Manchester United man Diego Forlán and Manolo Sánchez have both won the Pichichi award, as the league’s top scorers, wearing the iconic number. Before them, there was Marcos Alonso, José Ufarte and José Juncosa who all helped in winning trophies for the club. Real Madrid number 7 Just like Atlético, the big star at Los Blancos, Cristiano Ronaldo, wears number seven. But the man most associated with the number at Real is perhaps Raúl Gonzalez, who spent 16 years with the shirt.  Raul is to this day idolised by the Real faithful and is considered one of the most important players in the history of Real Madrid as well as one of the greatest Spanish strikers of all-time. Atlético Madrid number 8 The number eight shirt, that boasts a most impressive history, is worn today by Saúl Ñíguez. Larbi Ben Barek, nicknamed “the Black Pearl” in Spain, was the first ever to wear the eight at Atlético Madrid.  After him, several great players have followed including the team’s current captain Gabi, who wore the number eight during his first spell with the club. But no one could compare to the great Luis Aragonés, who to this day remains the club’s all-time top goalscorer with 173 goals. Real Madrid number 9 The number nine shirt at Real Madrid is where the glory of the club truly lies. The shirt is today occupied by Karim Benzema. Nine is the number that Alfredo Di Stéfano, one of the best players ever to play the game, wore.  Hugo Sánchez, who is the only player to have won the Pichichi award for four consecutive seasons, also donned the famous number nine shirt. The Brazilian Ronaldo (aka R9) wore the shirt during the majority of his time with Real and for one season, so did current number seven, Cristiano Ronaldo. Atlético Madrid number 9 At Atlético the nine has a special importance as well. The number is worn today by Fernando Torres. Torres chose the shirt because of hero José Eulogio Gárate, one of the best strikers in the history of the club.  Gárate was a prominent member of the successful Atlético side in the late 1960s and early 1970s that went on to win the league on three occasions. The number nine shirt that had first been worn by Adrián Escudero, one of the best strikers in the early 1950s, has in later years also been seen on players like Radamel Falcao and David Villa. Real Madrid number 10 The number ten shirt at Real Madrid has seen its glory and its fiascos. But there is no one who wore it better than the Hungarian Ferenc Puskás. Despite not joining the club until he was 31, he is considered one of the best players ever to have pulled on the white of Real Madrid. When Luis Figo made the controversial move Barcelona to Real, the number ten shirt took on the spotlight of the entire footballing world.  These numbers have historically created the most history for Atlético and Real Madrid, but there are numbers that will never be forgotten due to one single player. At Atlético Madrid, number 14 is such a number – the number that Diego Simeone wore when the club won the historic double in 1996. It’s a number that still bears importance in the Atleti dressing room today, as it’s the number of club captain Gabi Fernández. eNCA