DURBAN - The Sharks have named an unchanged starting lineup to face the Bulls in their Super Rugby clash in Durban on Saturday. On the bench, loose forward Dan du Preez makes a return from injury. Sharks coach Robert du Preez said he felt the need to make consistent selections. READ: Sharks hammer Blues 63-40 “Over the past two weeks, we really started to click as a unit on-field and we want to carry that momentum going into our next two matches, before the break,” said Du Preez. Are you ready for this weekend's clash?
		
		Make sure to check out the pinned post on our Facebook page to see how you can win a spot in South Africa's first in-stadium pool area at JONSSON KINGS PARK.#SHAvBUL#OurSharksForever pic.twitter.com/bTnaMxsa6e “This is going to be a typical local derby match and it’s important that we stick we to our plans and execute them accurately on the day. “It’s always a special feeling to play in front of our home fans and we are happy to be back home.” READ: RG Snyman and Lood de Jager back for Bulls Bulls captain, Burger Odendaal, said they could not afford to lose momentum again during the next couple of weeks. Vodacom Bulls Fitness Report vs @TheSharksZA
		
		Proudly brought to you by @keyhealth_sa, @arrienelpharma, @NeoLifeSA and @TheJVLLifestyle #BullsFamily50K #SHAvBUL pic.twitter.com/2XQktKhisN “We started well, then lost our way and with us bouncing back nicely against the Stormers, it is time to kick on. The week’s rest has done all of us well, so we are keen to go and record a win in Durban. We have the players and the game plan to be very competitive against a strong Sharks team.” Bulls team: 15 Warrick Gelant, 14 Johnny Kotze, 13 Jesse Kriel, 12 Burger Odendaal (captain), 11 Divan Rossouw, 10 Handre Pollard, 9 Ivan van Zyl, 8 Hanro Liebenberg, 7 Thembelani Bholi, 6 Marco van Staden, 5 Lood de Jager, 4 RG Snyman, 3 Trevor Nyakane, 2 Adriaan Strauss, 1 Pierre Schoeman. Replacements: 16 Jaco Visagie, 17 Lizo Gqoboka, 18 Frans van Wyk, 19 Jason Jenkins, 20 Roelof Smit, 21 Andre Warner, 22 Manie Libbok, 23 Duncan Mathews. Sharks team: 15 Curwin Bosch, 14 Sbu Nkosi, 13 Lukhanyo Am, 12 Andre Esterhuizen, 11 Lwazi Mvovo, 10 Robert du Preez, 9 Louis Schreuder, 8 Tera Mtembu, 7 Jean-Luc du Preez, 6 Philip van der Walt, 5 Stephan Lewies, 4 Ruan Botha (captain), 3 Thomas du Toit, 2 Chiliboy Ralepelle, 1 Tendai Mtawarira. Replacements: 16 Akker van der Merwe, 17 Juan Schoeman, 18 John-Hubert Meyer, 19 Tyler Paul, 20 Daniel du Preez, 21 Cameron Wright, 22 Marius Louw, 23 Kobus van Wyk. African News Agency