CAPE TOWN - Eskom has admitted to Parliament that it didn't turn off the electricity of defaulting municipalities because it was on the eve of the 2016 local election. The new Eskom board was detailing the utility’s financial position to Parliament's Public Enterprises Committee. Sixty municipalities owe Eskom more than R9-billion in unpaid tariffs, which is a financial headache for the power utility. READ: Graft-hit Eskom seeks to recover R66.6bn via tariff hikes Although the board confirmed that Eskom had considered stopping to supply electricity to defaulting municipalities, it revealed that previous CEO's had instructed that the lights be kept on. Eskom Head of Customer Services, Ayanda Noah, said, "When we had the local government elections, we did have an instruction from our then CEO, I think it was Mr. Motana at the time,  where on the eve of actually wanting to interrupt in accordance to the program that we had, he gave an instruction that we shouldn't interrupt... And another incident last year, just after we presented to Scopa, my then CEO instructed me that from now on there isn't going to be an interruption because it’s politically not palatable." READ: Ramaphosa orders SIU investigation of Eskom and Transnet The board also admitted that Eskom has just over 30 days of coal left to run power stations, due to a historic lack of investment in "cost plus mines", but it asserted that loadshedding was not being contemplated. Eskom Head of Generation Thava Govender, said “I think it is disingenuous for me to say there will never be load shedding. Load-shedding is caused by various issues ....So the comfort I can give is that our job is to supply the country with power but also to make sure we don't load-shed or have a blackout.” The availability of coal has also been impacted by the Gupta-linked Tegeta mine being placed in business rescue. The board announced it would appoint a permanent CEO and CFO by the end of May. Itsaid it was also completing several internal investigations of corruption. eNCA