*Editor's note: This livestream has ended. You may watch the recording above. JOHANNESBURG – President Cyril Ramaphosa says Mama Winnie Madikizela-Mandela did not only bring up her own children during difficult times, but also the children of South Africa. Ramaphosa arrived in Winnie Madikizela-Mandela’s home village in the Eastern Cape on Tuesday. It is Ramaphosa’s first stop in the province which will also host a memorial service in Mbizana. Ramaphosa is set to deliver the eulogy during the service just after 13:20. eNCA will take that event live. President Ramaphosa arrives in Bizana. He will also deliver a eulogy at a memorial service for the struggle stalwart #WinnieMandela. Now on #DStv403 pic.twitter.com/2V4YSau2tY "She didn’t just get the title of Mother of the Nation. She cared for our people and provided leadership during our most trying times," Ramaphosa said during an impromptu address in front of residents. #Ramaphosa She once said she is the product of the masses of our people and no truer words have been spoken. She lived among the people. She will always be your daughter, sister and aunt and grandmother. We thank you for giving us your daughter who made such a contribution. Just weeks ago, Madikizela-Mandela joined Ramaphosa to check her voter registration details at a voting station in Soweto. WATCH: Graca Machel pays tribute to Winnie Madikizela-Mandela Ramaphosa expressed his condolences after Mama Winnie's passing. “Even at the darkest moments of our struggle for liberation, Mam’ Winnie was an abiding symbol of the desire of our people to be free.” “In the midst of repression, she was a voice of defiance and resistance. In the face of exploitation, she was a champion of justice and equality. Throughout her life, she made an everlasting contribution to the struggle through sacrifice and her unyielding determination. Her dedication to the plight of her people gained her the love and the respect of the nation.” WATCH: Family members mourn Winnie Madikizela-Mandela was discharged from a Johannesburg hospital late in January after being treated for a kidney infection. Locals have been stopping at the Madikizela family homestead to pay their respects. Various memorials have been taking place across the country in honour of the struggle icon. eNCA