GOLD COAST, Australia - Chad le Clos booked his place at the top table of men’s 100m freestyle sprinting with a silver medal at the Commonwealth Games on Sunday. The 48.15 seconds Le Clos clocked is also the fastest he has ever swum 100m. It came amid another profitable few hours in the pool on Sunday night (Australian time) as 200m breaststroke gold medallist Tatjana Schoenmaker continued her remarkable form when she qualified fastest for Monday night’s final. She followed up her morning heats swim of 1:07.69 with a 1:06.65 in the semis. Le Clos’s silver helped take South Africa's medal tally to nine, with Colleen Piketh claiming bronze in the women’s singles bowls. The country is seventh overall at this stage, but there is  promise of more gold. Schoenmaker's time was the second fastest any South African has ever swum, only 0.13 seconds behind the great Penny Heyns’ African record at the 1999 Pan Pacs Championships in Sydney. “I am going to try go for it (the record) in the final,” said the 20-year-old. “If it happens then it happens and if not then it’s not meant to be. But, I’m feeling really good and I’m very happy, I wanted to go under 1:07, around a mid to high 1:06. I’m just concentrating on my own race and not worrying about anyone around me,” she said. Cameron van der Burgh led a three-man charge into the 100m breaststroke final by clocking 26.95, which was second quickest going into the final behind England’s Adam Peaty, but Bishops matriculant Michael Houlie also produced the goods when it mattered and his 27.64 qualified him fifth fastest and Brad Tandy’s 27.99 sees him into the final as eighth quickest. Erin Gallagher, 19, followed up a fifth-place finish in the 50m freestyle final by breaking the African record in the 100m freestyle semi-final. Karin Prinsloo’s 54.48 had stood since 2014 but Gallagher erased that mark and replaced it with her own 54.38, which was seventh fastest overall. GALLERY: Commonwealth Games opening Le Clos himself was back in the water, where he was all smiles after qualifying comfortably for the 100m butterfly final, not concerned about letting James Guy get to the wall first in 52.34. On Monday night he’ll attempt to make it a clean sweep of all three butterfly events. Australians regard the men’s 100m freestyle as something of their personal property and at the 2014 Games in Glasgow, they recorded a clean sweep of the medals. On this occasion, they had three sprinters in the final but they finished second (in a tie for silver with Le Clos), fourth and sixth. Victory went to the 20-year-old Scotsman Duncan Scott, who denied Le Clos a famous victory in the final few strokes, touching the wall in 48.02. Behind him were Le Clos in lane five and Aussie Kyle Chalmers in lane three, with both being credited with 48.15. It was the second time in a major championship that Le Clos had shared silver, following that dramatic three-way tie in the 100m butterfly final at the Rio Olympics. “It was that close … I could sense him coming from behind and I thought, “please no, please no”. I swam a great race and I think I just over-extended too much at the end. It happens sometimes when you fight too much,” said Le Clos, who claimed his third medal of the Games, to go along with two golds in the 50m and 200m butterfly. “This is the race that I wanted,” Le Clos said. “It’s my best time (beating the 48.16 he swam in the 2015 Fina World Cup in Moscow) and I can’t complain about that. I knew it would be hard. I said before that the final had the fastest ever guy in textile (Cameron McEvoy), the Olympic champion (Chalmers) and it was here in the Aussies’ backyard in front of an amazing home crowd for them. “I’d wish we could do it again. I’d love to again. But fair play to Duncan. Huge props to him.” The South African reached the 50m turn in second in 22.86, with McEvoy leading in 22.83. At this stage Scott was sixth and Chalmers seventh, both with plenty to make up. A good turn saw Le Clos hit the front and that’s where it looked as it he would stay, holding off all challengers with 20 metres remaining. That’s when Scott surged and it came down to the last two strokes before all eyes in the 12,500-seat open-air arena turned to the giant scoreboard, which revealed it was indeed Scott with gold, Le Clos and Chalmers with the silver. African News Agency