JOHANNESBURG – Analysts say it’s imperative that the current public sector wage negotiations are resolved speedily to prevent any strikes. Indications are they’re heading for a dispute with the government determined to manage the bloated public service wages and unions wanting above-inflation increases. The public sector wage deal expired on March 31 and a new agreement will be backdated. A deal needs to be secured in the seven-month-long negotiations – or workers will take to the streets. Unions are demanding a salary increase for government employees is linked to the consumer price index, plus three percent for junior government employees and CPI plus two percent for mid-level employees. They also want a one-year wage agreement instead of the current three-year cycle. The National Education, Health and Allied Workers' Union (Nehawu) president, Mzwandile Makwayiba said:“Our position is always that there must be salary adjustments in terms of inflation and real increase on top of that. We are busy exploring that some of the disadvantaged low levels are taken care of by many ways, either to remove that level and take them to another level or enhance the benefits of the lower level workers.” READ: Nehawu to give update on nationwide strike But the government is offering CPI plus one percent. Its proposals include changes to civil servants’ salary packages and the phasing in of a new housing allowance for husbands and wives employed by the state, instead of the immediate implementation that labour demanded. In a statement, the Ministry of Public Service and Administration says it has no intention of delaying the wage negotiations and aims to find the best solution for all stakeholders. “The Minister [Ayanda Dlodo] would like to assure all public servants and the public in general that government has no intention to delay the public sector negotiations process. I would like to restate our commitment to this process and assure all stakeholders that we will not rest until a best possible outcome is found between the negotiating parties.” Labour Analyst, Mamokgethi Molopyane said:“It’s critical that the public wage that negotiations be settled, not only in terms of what the workers are asking for but also bringing certainty to that part of government. Whenever we talk about wage negotiations and certainty we always focus on mining. But remember if the public sector goes on strike and the dispute is not settled on time it has an impact on many other avenues of government such as health, teachers, municipal workers.” The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development says South Africa’s wage bill is one of the highest among its developing country peers. Economists say an above-inflation settlement would result in public sector wages continuing to grow as a percentage of government spending, which will increase the already bloated wage bill. eNCA