PIETERMARITZBURG – Maritzburg United twice came from behind to earn a 2-2 draw in a thrilling league match against Mamelodi Sundowns at the Harry Gwala Stadium on Wednesday night. A win would have left the Pretoria side six points ahead of Orlando Pirates with two games to go and the title pretty much in the bag due to a superior goal difference. But despite twice leading on the night, Sundowns were unable to see off a spirited Maritzburg outfit and had to settle for a single point at the end of a highly entertaining 90 minutes. Masandawana dominated the opening exchanges and after Tiyani Mabunda and Khama Billiat enjoyed early shots on goal, the visitors took the lead with only five minutes on the clock when Themba Zwane bundled the ball into the net from close range after Maritzburg keeper Richard Ofori had parried a Percy Tau header into his path. But just like in Sunday's Nedbank Cup semi-final game between the two sides, the KZN team thrust themselves back into the game by playing their fluent passing game. However, with Sundowns not willing to relinquish control, the intensity of the game, matched a fired-up capacity home crowd, went up several notches as the teams matched each other blow for blow. Referee Chris Harrison was certainly kept on his toes as some meaty challenges came in, Hlompho Kekana and Mabunda, in particular, struggling to keep Siphesihle Ndlovu in check, while both benches were regularly off their feet as the tension mounted. Then, after Tau had gone close to curling a 32nd minute effort into the top corner, Maritzburg striker Andrea Fileccia restored parity a minute later when he coolly rolled the ball into an empty net from a tight angle, after 'Downs keeper Denis Onyango had completely missed an attempted interception on Ndlovu's searching through ball. After an enthralling opening to the second half, the contest balanced on a knife-edge, Zwane had a decent chance to put the Brazilians back in front on the hour mark but miscued a half-volley from the edge of the area. As the half wore on there was end-to-end action as the two sides went at each other full throttle. And just after Ndlovu had fired wide after a swift counter by the KZN club, Sundowns reclaimed the lead in the 75th minute when a short corner from Billiat found an unmarked Tebogo Langerman, who drilled in a thunderous shot into the far corner of the net. Tay could have wrapped up the match 10 minutes later when he went clean through on goal, but Ofori came up trumps with a superb save with his legs. It proved costly as three minutes before the end of regulation time, Lebohang Maboe sensationally picked up the ball near the halfway line, burst past three defenders and played a one-two with Motsie Matima before squeezing the ball past Onyango and into the net. African News Agency