PARYS - Stompie Seipei’s mother says she made peace with Winnie Madikizela-Mandela a long time ago. Speaking from her home in Parys, Free State, on Sunday afternoon, Joyce Seipei recalled when she met the struggle veteran, who was accused of involvement in Seipei's son's death in the late 1980s. Seipei said: “There was an organisation called Ilitha Labantu and they were talking about when your child has been murdered, would you ever forgive. I asked myself if I would ever be able to forgive or not. But I went out to the toilet and left my younger child. I asked God to help me forgive because this thing will affect me. That’s when I felt free - until I met Winnie. "I met Winnie in the toilet without anybody knowing. My child loved playing with water and always wanted to go to the toilet. When we get there he would wash his hands. That’s when I hear him greeting Winnie and asked her to come and see me. Zindzi and Winnie both held him by his hands and came to me. The first thing she said was I looked like my son Stompie. That’s when I forgave Winnie and I felt free”. EXCLUSIVE: Mandela Football Club spied on Winnie, claims operative The young activist's death became a hot topic following Mama Winne's death this week, even though she was cleared of the murder. Seipei and her family welcomed the secretary-general of the ANC, Ace Magashule, in their home on Sunday. Seipei has been quoted as saying she would like to attend Mama Winnie’s funeral but cannot afford to do so. She met the then 62-year-old Madikizela-Mandela at the Truth and Reconciliation Commission in 1997, where the late stalwart asked her for forgiveness. Since 1989, the murder of Stompie Seipei has hung over Madikizela-Mandela's head. The fourteen-year old's body was found near her house in Orlando. She was suspected of ordering Mandela United Football Club member Jerry Richardson to kill Seipei. But former police commissioner George Fivaz this week said an investigation had found these allegations to be baseless. EXCLUSIVE: Winnie's brush with the law regarding Stompie Sepei Madikizela-Mandela died on Monday at the age of 81 and is to be buried next weekend. eNCA