JOHANNESBURG – The news of South African actor and television presenter Akhumzi Jezile has stunned SA. Jezile was responsible for entertaining young children on the well-known kids show YoTV. In an interview with The Sowetan in 2010 he said, “I kept on calling the producers of YoTV to be a guest presenter on Wild Room. Finally they called and booked me to come to the show. That was the second time I went to Urban Brew." READ: TV and radio personality Akhumzi Jezile dies Jezile has interviewed international acts such as the Black Eyed Peas and Mary J Blige. He was voted the most popular kids show presenter in 2009. He landed a gig Tempy Pushas on SABC1 in 2013. Jezile was close with his YoTV colleague and friend Musa Mthombeni. Mthokozisi Musawenkosi Mthombeni! My bestest buddy!!!! I have no poetic words, no rhyming words or a profound quote I found on google to wish you a happy birthday my friend, but all I can say is....It’s been one hell of a ride growing up with you and I have no doubt that kusezobamnandi. May God keep you for a looooong while longer, because you make this whole life vibe extra colorful and worth it. I love you dude, proper even!!!!!!❤️ A post shared by  uMgcina, uTyopho KaJezile (@akhumzi) on Local celebrities such as Da L.E.S, Boity Thulo, Loyiso Bala, Uyandd Mbuli and many more paid tribute to him on twitter. Akhumzi was very passionate about entertainment it was so admirable to watch. It seemed like he was passionate about everyone. He’ll definitely be missed and remembered. To his family and friends my condolences goes out to y’all. #RipAkhumzi He won the award for best supporting actor in the 2014 South African Film and Television Awards (SAFTA). Various reports claim that Akhumzi died in an apparent accident. His fans took to twitter to pay tribute to him. This is my Eastern Cape homeboy - my friend - my brother.
		This is one of the guys who welcomed me in the industry with LOVE, back in 2013.
		One of the greatest assets SA arts has ever had. A mentor, a professional, a good man!
		
		Lala ngoxolo mhlob’ am. ------ #ripAkhumzi pic.twitter.com/T211WE5IjC Still trying to make sense of it all... #RIPAkhumzi I am so confused...
		I saw Akhumzi a while ago ----and he said something really special to me. This is so surreal...#RIPAkhumzi. #RipAkhumzi
		I ddnt know him personally but i feel so hurt & shattered.
		I don't know why, but it hurts -------- pic.twitter.com/VUKNaYAb5S No No!!!!! -------- Akhumzi!!! Such a phenomenal talented individual -- Gone to soon - Heaven couldn’t wait #RipAkhumzi pic.twitter.com/fNwiqrhz1h We're saddened to hear the news of the tragic and sudden passing of multitalented actor, producer, TV & radio presenter, Akhumzi Jezile. We'll miss his exhilarating energy, passion & appreciation of Africa culture, which inspired him to learn most of our languages. #RIPAkhumzi pic.twitter.com/RdL0rcuGA4 NEWS: Actor Thobani Mseleni also has reportedly died from the accident that took Akhumzi Jezile and 3 other people. #RIPThobani #RIPAkhumzi pic.twitter.com/O0INtSDjoG #RipAkhumzi
		Thank you for growing up with us on YOTV.
		Thank you for always being yourself and letting us into your life.
		Thank you for being a role model and chasing your dreams relentlessly!
		-- 2018 is doing the most. pic.twitter.com/vsUtZlidmz Damm #RIPAkhumzi ---- life is short guys , let’s try cherish every moment He was a happy soul
		
		Gone too soon
		#RipAkhumzi pic.twitter.com/IYLhW8iXDT I’m shook. Akhumzi, was such an amazing soul. An amazing producer and director, he’d bring out the best in anyone. I’m so shook. #RipAkhumzi pic.twitter.com/AHL99JiRIz No WAYS!!!!!!!!! #RipAkhumzi Had the best conversation with you that filled my heart with so much fire to keep pushing and now--
		
		Goodbyes hurt when the story is not finished and the book has been closed. #RIPAkhumzi pic.twitter.com/hLAb3tjzcQ I don’t have the words. I don’t understand. This is just a lot. To all who loved him, knew him and got to know him. We are so lucky and so blessed. May his soul rest in eternal peace. #RipAkhumzi What a loss, we worked together at Urban Brew studios. Very passionate and hardworking soul. #RipAkhumzi and to the family, we are praying for you https://t.co/E6Vh203mT0 #RIPAkhumzi I will remember ur warmth and joy this day forever. You were a new friend in the making and a great peer. U go unmatched! My heart is broken for ur family and friends and for myself. pic.twitter.com/BGb3WOfvEe I am in absolute shock to hear of Akhumzi’s passing. He was one of the best people I know, full of life, passion and love for people. We’ve lost one of the few genuine people in this industry. You’ll be sorely missed -- #RipAkhumzi DEATH BE NOT PROUD!!! #RIPThobani #RIPSiya #RipAkhumzi #RIPtoTheOthersNotIdentifiedYet ---------------------------- eNCA