JOHANNESBURG - National police commissioner General Khehla Sitole vowed on Thursday that the police would "choke the supply of drugs" in communities and arrest those who continue to manufacture illegal substances. This comes after the police discovered what appears to be a drug laboratory in the early hours of Thursday at a house in Orlando West, Soweto. It was considered a major breakthrough in the fight against the scourge of drugs even though no one was arrested. READ: R8.9-million drug bust in Elsies River Sitole praised the collaborative work between communities and the police, saying it had led to this breakthrough and a number of arrests for drug-related crimes in Orlando in the past year. "The community has played a commendable role in this intelligence-driven operation and that must be recognised as we continue to advocate for partnership policing. Arresting peddlers and runners is important, but we cannot overemphasise the even greater need to arrest and close down the actual manufacturers and suppliers," Sitole said. "Our members are hard at work since the discovery this morning and are still busy combing and processing the scene for more evidence. At this stage we have recovered tablets, powder, an unidentified solution and equipment that will be subjected to forensic processing to confirm identity, description and use." WATCH: Lesufi suggests pupils undergo drug testing Sitole said the evidence found was sufficient to warrant the opening of a criminal case and the police would be able to give the estimated value of the recovered drugs at a later stage. He appealed to the neighbouring community or anyone who has information to come forward and report to the police. "The truth is the house had been abandoned on our arrival, but that's a discussion for another day. So we are on the lookout for suspects and we therefore need the public to assist us with apprehending the suspect or suspects," Sitole said. #OrlandoDrugDen @SAPoliceService chemical investigators from national police have been scraping the crime scene, including examining a pulverized. No tablet presser is on site. But bags of tablets are here. pic.twitter.com/dqNZggNSiL African News Agency