JOHANNESBURG – The South African Federation of Trade Unions (Saftu) called on members of the public and unemployed people to join their national strike on Wednesday as they believe that the issues that are being raised affect everyone in general. Saftu will embark on a general strike in protest against the proposed national minimum wage of R20 an hour and changes to labour laws. The trade union federation believes the minimum wage will entrench poverty. READ: Saftu announces meeting points for Wednesday's nationwide strike Saftu has calmed fears and assured members of the public that they have no reason to fear for their lives in the general strike when its members take to the streets. “Saftu is hoping that thousands of workers will join the general strike tomorrow (Wednesday) against what we regard as a poverty minimum wage and laws which will severely restrict workers democratic rights,” said acting Saftu spokesperson Patrick Craven. “We are quite confident that the demonstrations which will be held all over the country will be peaceful, disciplined and orderly. “Members of the general public have nothing to fear whatsoever and we hope that on the contrary, they will join us because these are issues that affect everybody and not just our members.” Saftu is the second largest trade union federation in South Africa. Craven said they are expecting thousands of members to join the strike. “[We are expecting numbers] from across the board. We think the manufacturing industry will be the most important area,” he said. “Transport of course is already affected by the bus strike, we hope they will be joined by other transport workers. We are appealing to workers in the public sector and also in the informal sector. We already have quite a bit of support from informal traders who are keen to be involved in this campaign. “Even the unemployed, there is no reason at all why they can’t come along because they are affected undoubtedly by the appalling conditions that workers employed and unemployed are facing at the moment.” WATCH: Trade unions hold briefing on public sector wage negotiations Cosatu, has urged its members not to participate in the strike. It accused Saftu of misleading its members. Saftu has dismissed Cosatu’s claims as groundless. eNCA