PRETORIA – Based on the way they dismantled Bidvest Wits with ease in a 2-0 league victory at the Loftus Versfeld Stadium on Saturday evening, Mamelodi Sundowns appear ominously like they're on the way to claiming the title.
	 
	Goals from Themba Zwane and Sibusiso Vilakazi, both set up by Percy Tau, in the first half put the Brazilians in firm command and it proved to be a comfortable win in front of their rapturous home supporters as the visitors never hinted at any threat of a comeback.
	 
	Sundowns looked in the mood from kick off and Bidvest Wits keeper Darren Keet was kept busy as he made saves from Vilakazi and Zwane in the opening 15 minutes.
	 
	The breakthrough came in the 20th minute when Tau robbed Phumlani Ntshangase of possession before surging forward and laying the ball off to Zwane, who obliged with a clinical finish. The Clever Boys had a couple of half chances to get back into the game, but although Lehlohonolo Majoro and Daine Klate drew saves from Denis Onyango, the 'Downs stopper was not overly-worked.
	 
	But this was to be Masandawana and Tau's night, most certainly not Ntshangase's, after the Wits midfielder again conceded possession and was left watching as Tau raced goal-wards in the 38th minute before rolling in a pass for Vilakazi, who finished neatly through the legs of Keet to double the advantage.
	 
	Sundowns remained in control after the break and Hlompho Kekana was not far away from catching Keet off his line in the 48th minute with a typically audacious shot from within his own half.
	 
	Keet was called into action again just after the hour mark when he kept out Thapelo Morena at the near post.
	 
	The Students had a couple of moments on attack, but the Brazilians' defence was in uncompromising mood and it was Sundowns who had the next chance when Morena burst through on goal with 10 minutes to play and took the ball around Keet, only to be denied a shot when Edwin Gyimah got back and made a brilliant tackle in the box.
	 
	With their fans in full voice in Pretoria, sensing the league title is on the way, Masandawana saw out the final few minutes in style as they played keep-ball in the final few minutes of the game to move six points clear of Orlando Pirates, who play AmaZulu in Durban on Sunday. African News Agency