CAPE TOWN – They remain in the relegation zone, but Ajax Cape Town kept their survival hopes alive with a slender 1-0 league win over Bidvest Wits at Athlone on Wednesday night.
	 
	The result, courtesy of a Yannick Zakri strike midway through the first half of an evenly-balanced contest, means Ajax stay second from bottom on the table, six points above Platinum Stars, and one point behind SuperSport United, who drew 0-0 with Orlando Pirates in Nelspruit in Wednesday's only other fixture.
	 
	The early action at Athlone was lively with both sides showing good attacking intent, Ajax having a chance in the seventh minute when the on-loan-from-Sundowns marksman Zakri made space for himself to take a shot but was unable to keep it on target.
	 
	There was another opportunity for the Cape side on 20 minutes when Isaac Nhlapo missed the target after getting on the end of a Roderick Kabwe delivery, while at the other end of the pitch, home keeper Jody February did well to keep out a shot from Vincent Pule.
	 
	Ajax had their breakthrough on 25 minutes when Fagrie Lakay, a player who has made a big impact on loan from SuperSport this year, powered through the midfield and played a perfectly weighted through ball for Zakri, who did superbly to hold off the defence and roll a parting shot into the far post.
	 
	The Clever Boys responded positively to the setback and put the Urban Warriors defence under some pressure for the remainder of the first half, with Pule missing two chances before Lehlohonolo Majoro struck the crossbar just before the interval.
	 
	The action continued thick and fast in the second half as Nhlapo sent 51st-minute shot inches wide and then Lakay drew a sharp save from Keet as Ajax pushed for a second.
	 
	But the Cape club soon found themselves on the back foot again as Wits regrouped and came storming back, former Ajax midfielder Granwald Scott going close when his shot skimmed just over the bar.
	It was backs-to-the-wall stuff for the Urban Warriors as the Students continued to push for an equaliser, but apart from a Majoro headed which was comfortably held by February, the visiting side were unable to find the openings they were looking for.
	 
	Ajax could even have had a second goal if Lakay had not blasted a shot over the bar five minutes from time, but it was inconsequential as a relieved home coach Muhsin Ertugral saw his team claiming a vital three points in their quest to avoid relegation. African News Agency