JOHANNESBURG – Democratic Alliance (DA) leader Mmusi Maimane addressed the Federal Congress in Pretoria on Saturday. Mmaimane's speech set the tone for the party's congress. He wants to deal with the country's racial quotas, winning Gauteng governance and strengthening the coalition partnerships. Racial quotas have been in the spotlight leading to the congress, with DA leaders defending proposed amendments to the party's constitution, championed by Maimane. READ: Maimane: ANC, EFF trying to make black farmers permanent tenants of state "They say we are a white party, because they can see we are growing in every village and township. They can see – as I do when I look around this hall – a party united in its glorious diversity," Maimane said to loud cheers. "They say we are the party of apartheid, because they know that we are the only party uniting South Africans of all races... As liberals... we are not colour-blind. We understand that the racial domination and dispossession of apartheid and colonialism destroyed people’s freedom. We want to fix this injustice without reducing every person to their race." "At the end of my life I will be judged on whether I was a good husband, a loving father, a loyal son, a patriotic South African, someone who contributed to society.
		
		None of those questions will be defined by my blackness." - @MmusiMaimane #DACongress2018 pic.twitter.com/5CQUdyZJFc Among other things, Maimane believes the party has a good chance of gaining total control of the Gauteng province. “This is the battleground, the future of this country will be determined by what happens in this province," he said. "I don't know about you, but next year after the next elections we must put a DA-led government here in Gauteng. Seven years ago we won Mid-Vaal. They didn't know that in 2016 we would win Johannesburg, Pretoria and others. What began as a small tide is now beginning to become a tsunami that is sweeping across South Africa and will continue to sweep in this province as we bring about the change in Gauteng,” he said. "My blackness doesn’t add to or subtract from my humanity. And it doesn’t define everything I am, because I am secure enough in my blackness to think for myself." - @MmusiMaimane #DACongress2018 pic.twitter.com/OJ6oaVabkb He said he wants all his party’s coalition partners to put their differences aside as this takes the focus away from real issues.
	
	“We've extended coalition politics to the national stage and I want to say to all the parties and coalition partners in South Africa, I extend the friendly hand of constitutionalism, non-racialism and I want to say to you, let us continue to work together for the people of this country," Maimane said. READ: Start firing ministers: Maimane tells Ramaphosa "We've had to learn to set aside our differences and do what's good for the people of our country. It hasn't always been easy but i believe that it is the future of South Africa and ultimately democracy in action. Even at times when our partners in governement turned against us in the name of racial populism, we've prevailed. because our course is just and our principles are firm." eNCA