JOHANNESBURG – Gauteng police are investigating a case of intimidation after a group of people paraded an effigy of Education MEC, Panyaza Lesufi. It was draped in an ANC T-shirt and placard that read: “You are raping Afrikaans”. Lesufi has been embroiled in bitter rows with a number of Afrikaans medium school heads over their refusal to admit English-speaking pupils. The Afrikaans Language Board has strongly condemned the incident saying it’s an attempt to further enhance polarization about language and education. The ANC in Gauteng condemned the incident as a  cowardly and racist attack. These morons came to our offices to “hang” me! We defeated your racists grandparents, you are nothing! pic.twitter.com/ovtr3CavbV A defiant Lesufi responded to the incident on social media. These morons came to our offices to “hang” me! We defeated your racists grandparents, you are nothing! pic.twitter.com/hqH5fGRibJ The governing party has accused the group of being determined to undermine the building of a non-racial society through the transformation of the basic education system in Gauteng. “This brazen act by anti-transformation agents flies in the face of the supremacy of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, which advocates for equality and the advancement of human rights and freedoms including non-racialism,” the ANC said in a statement. “It follows several threats Comrade Panyaza has been receiving, together with his family, after the ANC-led government's decision to change the language policy at certain schools in the province from Afrikaans only to parallel medium schools. “This is aimed widening access for many scholars whom without this intervention will remain disadvantaged and excluded from accessing their basic right to education. “What is very clear from this latest incident is that the recent judgment meted out to convicted racist Vicki Momberg, which sets a precedent for other racial related cases, has not had the desired effect as those that are hell-bent on dividing out society along racial lines still feel the need to defend their apartheid racial legacy. “This means that the imperative to redress the results of past racially discriminatory laws and practices is more urgent than ever before.” #PostCab: concern and upset about effigy of Paynyaza Lesufi. Won’t be drawn into hatred of a small white minority. Please don’t retweet hateful pictures and law enforcement must find perpetrators. eNCA