JOHANNESBURG - South African designer Laduma Ngxokolo, the founder of Maxhosa by Laduma brand has approached his lawyers over alleged copyright infringement by international retail giant, Zara. In a statement released on Tuesday, Ngxokolo said his company was alerted by clients that Zara had "copied one of our signature patterns." "These patterns were appropriated & reproduced in as part of their sock range which they shared as new in their best-sellers on their online store. Their sock range resembles our Khanyisa Cardigan which was launch in March 2014 at the Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week Joburg. "The cardigan is still available on our online store and has been on runways globally, the piece is still one of our best sellers. The socks have been spotted at ZARA outlets in UK, New York and here at home at ZARA Sandton, South Africa," he said. READ: Beyoncé gives shout-out to SA designer Ngxokolo said his firm has since consulted with lawyers on how to handle the matter. "They (lawyers) have since sent a letter to the parent company alerting them of the copyright infringement and our demands. We have taken such steps so as to avoid our works being appropriated and adapted without our consent or permission. "Copyright infringement is a matter that we take seriously and fully aware of our intellectual property rights. We would like to thank the clients who have silently sent us proof of such infringements as they see they allowed us means to act. The debate as to whether we shall win the case or not remains, we stand by our decision to fight such a case," he said. A debate has since ensured on social media about copyrights while Proudly South African has slammed the international retailer. Proudly South African's statement on the replication by @ZARA of the work of local designer, @LadumaNgxokolo, @MaXhosaByL pic.twitter.com/96CWsCnd0G ON AIR - #AppropriationVSAppreciation
		Do you think @ZARA copied @MaXhosaByL or is it merely just appreciation of the trend set by Maxhosa? pic.twitter.com/fmLIIhGw6t MaXhosa won’t win a lawsuit against Zara, gigantic brands like louboutin have tried and failed. Rihanna tried to sue H&M and Forever 21 and lost . Chain stores easily get away with replicating designs. For as long as they change the name, somehow that protects them eNCA