* Editor's note: This livestream has ended. You may watch a recording of the event above. JOHANNESBURG - High-level politicians, and friends and family of late struggle stalwart Zola Skweyiya paid tribute to him during an official memorial service in Pretoria on Wednesday. Skweyiya died last Wednesday. READ: Ramaphosa, Mabuza visit Skweyiya's home Deputy President David Mabuza thanked Skweyiya for his contribution to building a democratic South Africa. "It was his deep hatred for racial oppression and injustice that inspired his lifelong activism. Dr Zola Skweyiya was a very loyal cadre of the ANC. He was a deep thinker yet a very rational person and yet disciplined in his own conduct and understanding the ANC and its reputation. "As a loyal member of the ANC, he gave absolute loyalty and obedience to the leadership of his organisation. But he was also an independent person but careful as to how he expressed himself amongst his comrades. He was a very humble person yet steadfast in his principles," said Mabuza. #ZolaSkweyiya Deputy President DD Mabuza pays tribute to the Zola Skweyiya and his family. pic.twitter.com/mEu0bh1RWv Mabuza highlighted some of the contributions Zola Skweyiya made toward South Africa's development. "The many strides that we made as a country especially on the enjoyment, promotion and protection of basic human rights, as provided for in our Constitution are partly due to Skweyiya's contribution and personal drive and conviction. "He succeeded in serving our nation with distinction because his love for the people was authentic. His enthusiasm for their dreams and aspiration was unsurpassed. As a living personification of fairness and justice, his demeanour exemplified a special sensitivity to the needs of the most vulnerable amongst ourselves. "Because of his passion for life and deep love for his people he became a revolutionary cadre par excellence. He epitomised a cadre of unquestionable loyalty and dedication to his people." He will be laid to rest on Saturday during a special official funeral. #ZolaSkweyiya Ngcuka speaks to the contribution of Zola in the writing of the SA Constitution particularly section 25 that relates to land and how the Constitutional Court came about. pic.twitter.com/WXq1gH6hbX eNCA