CAPE TOWN - Mixed Martial Arts (MMA) fans in Cape Town drilled out of GrandWest in Goodwood, thoroughly satiated from a superb evening’s serving of top-drawer combat action. Only one bout of the 12 went to a decision and even that was an entertaining three-round ground clinic put on by Roedie Roets. But more of the two 'Relentlesses' later. Martin ‘The Punisher’ van Staden (19-9) was the big winner of the night, walking away with an EFC title at the third time of asking after landing a perfectly-timed knee upon the jaw of Gavin ‘Big Tasty’ Hughes (9-1) in the second round, which sent the undefeated Scouser to the canvas. The Durban man followed-up with ground strikes to force the referee's intervention and steal the strap. There’s a lesson in all for us along Martin’s road to Damascus. I once paid 15 bucks to see him fight in a marquee on Durban’s Beachfront back in the day, but I remember more the grimace on his face when his knee popped as Fadipe slapped-on a heelhook in 2013 or his grief at losing his title shot against du Plessis in Sun City two years ago. I recall a lot of Martins’ fights simply because they were all bloody awesome, win or lose, throughout the years. And now, he’s a world champion who continues to show the world that there is no failure, except in no longer trying. The theme of veterans who put the upstarts to shame ran through to the co-main event, which witnessed Dave ‘Pain Train’ Mazany (16-7) coming back from adversity to hand Chris Bright (6-1) his first ever loss. The Port Elizabethan surprised those who were only aware of his much-vaunted BJJ game when he dropped the Alaskan in the first, only to fall to a left hook in the second from which he failed to recover. The Xtreme Couture entertainer will be van Staden’s first title defence at some point in the coming months, possibly back in the Mother City on 11 August. Suffice to say that’s a pretty unmissable scrap. It must be noted that Chris, who I first saw fight at EFC 1 in 2010, looked in his best shape ever and gave a world-class competitor like Mazany a whole host of problems in that first stanza. I’m not one who usually puts this out there but EFC 68 has left me nostalgic for the future, and it’s still a bright one for South African MMA. FFM’s grappling phenom Roedie Roets (4-0) continues to dispatch all whom Cartmell places before him, this time outgrinding Regis ‘Frostie’ Muyambo (6-6) over three long rounds. It was a good test for Roets who failed to finish the tough and enigmatic Zimbo but the speed at which this lad improves is scary. A solid head on his shoulders with a humble heart and a great fight camp at the age of 21, there is nothing in the sport that this young man can’t achieve. The only bizarre aspect of this fight was at the post-event press conference where the always entertaining and engaging Muyambo was inexplicably asked by a journalist if it was time he took a break from fighting. Excuse me? The lad who just beat Sindile Manengela, Oumpie Sebeko, Tyson Chelin and Pope Djembo, a 23-year-old prospect who came into this fight with a recent record of one loss in 5 fights? Sometimes I despair. England’s Cal ‘Pacino’ Ellenor (7-1) thankfully kept it out of the judges’ hands by putting the livewire Faeez ‘Troublemaker’ Jacobs (3-2) to sleep with a sweet semi-standing guillotine. The Capetonian came out of the bell with his usual energy, scoring the takedown but quickly lost position to the fluid jits of Ellenor who summoned the sandman with seconds left in the first. A cracking scrap and I never tire of seeing two awesome prospects put everything on the line and embrace in brotherhood afterwards. The main-card curtain raiser saw Durban’s Martin ‘The Diamond’ de Beer (6-4) face SBG’s Gary ‘Relentless’ Joshua (4-0) in what was always bound to be decided by either lad’s superior matitude. After some decent kickboxing exchanges, the fight hit the canvas and culminated in de Beer submitting to a heel-hook, a submission I always like to see on account of its relative rarity. The 61kg division of the EFC really is looking in rude health, which makes the Buys vs Rouch Bantamweight title fight on the 28th of April in Johannesburg even more fascinating in its divisional permutations. See you then, cheers for now. The official EFC 68 results are: Martin van Staden defeated Gavin Hughes via KO (knee and punches) 0:20 into round 2, to take the EFC lightweight title.
	Dave Mazany defeated Chris Bright via TKO (punches) 2:19 into round 2.
	Roedie Roets defeated Regis Muyamob via unanimous decision.
	Cal Ellenor defeated Faeez Jacobs via tapout (guillotine choke) 4:52 into round 1.
	Gary Joshua defeated Martin de Beer via tapout (heel hook) 4:37 into round 1.
	Luke Michael defeated Francois Cundari via tapout (rear naked choke) 1:31 into round 1.
	Luthando Biko defeated Warren Richards via TKO (strikes) 4:40 into round 1.
	Torjbjøn Madsen defeated Bruno Mukulu via tapout (strikes) 2:03 into round 2.
	Caleb Ridely defeated August Kayambal via tapout (rear naked choke) 2:04 into round 2.
	Juan Bezuidenhout defeated Matunga Djikasa via tapout (armbar) 4:38 into round 2.
	Wade Kerspuy defeated Hishaam Kamish via tapout (rear naked choke) 2:31 into round 1.
	Justin Smith defeated Robo Ambamba via TKO (strikes) 3:13 into round 1. eNCA