CAPE TOWN – The Lions produced a sensational performance straight from the kick-off and the Stormers were never able to recover as they suffered a crushing eight-try 52-31 defeat in their Super Rugby clash at Ellis Park in Johannesburg on Saturday evening. In the end, the try-fest produced 12 touchdowns and a bonus-point win for the Lions following their eight-try rout. The Lions took the match - and literally the Stormers too - by the scruff of the neck and ran in three tries in the opening 12 minutes to open up a commanding 19-0 lead All three tries were scored by Lions winger the Zaire-born Madosha Tambwe. My goodness.
		That's a hat-trick in twelve minutes.
		Half his career tries....in twelve minutes.
		#LIOvSTO pic.twitter.com/zvaZkMTaIu Flyhalf Elton Jantjies managed two of the three conversions. Before Tambwe's second touchdown the Lions were thwarted at the corner flag when their leftwing Ruan Combrinck was bundled into touch a metre from the try line. The Stormers seemed to shake off the 19-point setback as they pieced together a few penetrative surges upfield and midway through the half, they breached the opposition defence when prop Wilco Louw bulldozed his way over for his side's opening five-pointer. Fullback SP Marais added the extras from the kicking tee in the 21st minute (19-7). The Stormers continued to hold the upper hand in ensuing play but a telling counter-attack by the Lions saw Jantjies send midfielder Lionel Mapoe clear for the home team's fourth try which went unconverted (24-7). A runaway victory for the Emirates @LionsRugbyCo! Eight tries against the DHL @THESTORMERS at Emirates Airline Park. They win 52-31 to remain securely at the top of the South African Conference log. #LIOvSTO pic.twitter.com/alPSMsxrw9 Marais banged over a 36th-minute penalty (24-7) and two minutes later scrumhalf Jano Vermaak rounded off a fine team effort for the Stormers but the try was disallowed as the TMO pointed out an error in the build-up work. On the stroke of halftime, the Lions had several options to kick the ball into touch to end the first-half fare but instead to continued to run at the opposition defence and their efforts were rewarded with flank Kwagga Smith dotting down for a converted try next to the posts (31-10). Smith's try seemed to suggest that the match was over as a contest and that view would have been enforced a mere five minutes after the restart when a Jantjies line-break opened the way for lock Franco Mostert to down for a converted try (38-10). The Stormers again surrendered another possible seven-pointer when lack of support for flyhalf Damian Willemse saw the cover defence haul him down a metre from the try line. To add insult to injury, the Lions struck almost immediately through Tambwe who romped in for his fourth try which went converted and the lead at that stage was a whopping 35 points (45-10). Defence again crumbled on either side of the hour mark as first Willemse (Stormers) and then Combrinck (Lions) crossed for converted tries and with the latter's score, the home side raised the 50-point mark. Eight minutes from the end, Stormers leftwing shrugged off the Lions' defence and then sent substitute scrumhalf Albertus de Wet away for a try which Willemse converted (52-24). The match ended with a final-minute penalty try for the Stormers. The match produced a point-a-minute fare with 12 tries. Scorers: Lions 52 (31): Tries: Michael Tambwe (4), Lionel Mapoe, Kwagga Smith, Franco Mostert, Ruan Combrinck    Conversions: Elton Jantjies (6) Stormers  31 (10): Tries:  Wilco Louw, Damian Willemse, Albertus De Wet, penalty try. Conversions: SP Marais (2), Willemse    Penalty: Marais  – African News Agency (ANA), Editing by Herman Gibbs African News Agency