JOHANNESBURG – Social media users have slammed DJ and record producer Nkosinathi Maphumulo, better known as DJ Black Coffee, for performing in Israel. The DJ tweet about a sold-out event in the city of Tel Aviv. Thank you @the.tripping I Love you Telaviv
		Now off to @AwakeningFestiv afternoon set and Venice at night.#Godsveryown #soldout pic.twitter.com/UO2rJDhCZ3 People said he had indeed sold out by defying calls for a boycott of Israel because of its treatment of Palestineans and "occupation" of land. Raising a flag where Palestinian flag is burnt, Black Coffee sold out the Palestinian & Mzansi Black Coffee legit can't feign ignorance over playing in Tel-Aviv. We live in the age of access to information, the man is well travelled & is an active Twitter user. At some point he would have come across the Zionists murder agenda. From a SA'n no less? Cuts to the bone. South Africa’s isolation and the Academic & Cultural boycott are part of the reasons Apartheid capitulated to the call for freedom. It is morally & politically insensitive for DJ Black Coffee to just go on partying in Apartheid Israel, whilst it kills & oppresses innocent people. Among the critics was Economic Freedom Fighters chief whip Floyd Shivhambu. "That Israel is killing innocent Palestinians & continuing with the occupation doesn’t matter? A DJ from SA, a country that benefited due to international solidarity must just go to Israel for a party & we Black people celebrate such? Where’s the political & moral consciousness?" asked Shivhambu in a tweet. DJ Black Coffee responded to the critics saying that he is not a  political party but a DJ working for the good of his family. READ: Drake samples Black Coffee on new album "Like everyone else I have rights and free will and no, Black Coffee is not a political party...I work as an entertainer to feed my family. To sum it up ... I'll take a bullet for my family," the DJ said through Twitter . This is not about Rights or free will or whether you are a Political party or not. It's about PRINCIPLES, ETHICS, MORALS, VALUES and CONSCIENCE. And YOU Black Coffee clearly have absolutely none of them. ZERO. https://t.co/ZztqOcK29n Not everyone was critical of the DJ. You are absolutely right. I am busy researching what is happening in Israel right now, I honestly didn't know. Call me ignorant but life can really get in the way and you miss information. I've heard Julius talk about Israel in his but never knew what he was talking about... Like everyone else I have rights and free will and no Black Coffee is not a political party...I work as an entertainer to feed my Family.
		To sum it up....I'll take a bullet for my Family. Connoisseurs of political education must say tell us if political education is a tool to belittle and attack or to empower. And if the latter then they must tackle engagement. We can't allow a culture of bullying when there's room to learn from each other. Yhuu eNCA