JOHANNESBURG - Kaizer Chiefs, Saturday night's Nedbank Cup hosts at the Moses Mabhida Stadium, have finally broken their silence on the violence which erupted at the Moses Mabhida Stadium in Durban. In a statement on Monday, Chiefs said they were appealing to those people involved in the deplorable episode who claim to be their fans to stop this hooliganism immediately. Breaking News: Steve Komphela has resigned with immediate effect as head coach of Kaizer Chiefs! More news to follow #KCOneTeam "Incidents like those that were witnessed have no place anywhere in our society, least of all football. Acts of this nature endanger the lives of innocent people and cannot be tolerated under any circumstances. Don't let Steve Kompela's resignation distract you from the fact that Kaizer Chiefs fans (mostly men) beat up a female security guard until she was unconscious. #NedbankCup pic.twitter.com/payco4fQPM "We shall co-operate fully with law enforcement agencies and the PSL to ensure the perpetrators are brought to book. "Such behaviour goes against the very ethos of what Amakhosi stands for, which is Love and Peace. "It besmirches the reputation of the club and the millions of well-mannered supporters who make up the Kaizer Chiefs Family; it brings the game of football itself into disrepute and on a wider scale, it reflects very badly on our people and our country." READ: Two men to appear in court over Durban stadium violence Chiefs said they understood the passion of their fans and appreciated their sense of disappointment when results did not go as expected. "Everybody at the club is working to the best of their ability to bring success on the field and joy to the fans. Sometimes though, despite the best efforts of everyone, things don’t fall seamlessly into place. It is very difficult to always achieve the perfect combination. READ: Soccer fans slam Kaizer Chiefs supporters for stadium rampage "It is the nature of sport that nobody wins all the time and accepting defeat graciously with dignity is one of the principles that underpin the virtue of sportsmanship. "Kaizer Chiefs does not condone any acts of violence." African News Agency