JOHANNESBURG – EFF deputy president Floyd Shivambu says the ANC is having second thoughts about land expropriation without compensation. He was delivering the Freedom Day lecture at the University of KwaZulu-Natal. Ramaphosa: 'We are not going to steal land' “We adopted a resolution in Parliament that says that we must start the process of changing the constitution so that we can expropriate land without compensation. The ANC supported that but resolution, but they are now developing cold feet. They have been intimidated. Those that are in the economic transformation committee of the ANC are misleading and guess who is in the forefront of that? Jeremy Cronin, obviously because he is protecting his kin and kids, Enoch Godongwana head of economic transformation all of them misleading the whole organization,” Shivambu said. “I can tell you now if those who took that resolution did not put pressure. The reality is that we are not going to amend the constitution with the approval of the ANC. Then what do we do? Let's remove the ANC from power next year,” he said. Shivambu added that it's unacceptable that 24-years after democracy, black people are still not in charge of the South African economy. “In the Johannesburg Stock Exchange, the companies that are fully owned by black people are less than 2-percent. What has changed? What is the difference between 1993 and 2018? In actual fact white people are getting richer. They getting more comfortable. Those that benefited from colonial conquest they are still in control of our resources. More than 12 million South Africans depend on social grants, handouts from the state.” “And I am sure the highest social grant is R1500. What do you do with 1500? More than 12 black South Africans depend on social grants and that is not a progressive thing. The liberation movement goes around boasting 'ja we have given you social grants you must vote for us'. Our people cannot fend for themselves. They do not have any participation to the economy. They do not have land,” he added. eNCA