JOHANNESBURG  - Orlando Pirates hammered defending champions Bidvest Wits 4-0 in an Absa Premiership match played at the Orlando Stadium in Johannesburg on Wednesday evening to be four points shy of log-leaders Mamelodi Sundowns with two matches remaining. With Sundowns and Maritzburg United playing to a 2-all draw in their fixture on Wednesday evening, Pirates have ensured that they will finish at least as runners-up on the league table ahead of third-placed United. which will see them in action in the CAF Champions League competition next season. Playing in an empty Orlando Stadium as a result of disciplinary action taken by the Premier Soccer League against Pirates after their fans caused stadium damage in their fixture against Mamelodi Sundowns a few months back, it was Pirates' night. Going into the match in 2nd spot and 6 points behind log-leaders Mamelodi Sundowns, Pirates went ahead in the 12th minute, when Wits defender Sifiso Hlanti, turned a shot on goal from Luvuyo Memela past the visitors' No 1 Kyle Peters. The Students, as Wits are known, looked lacklustre for much of the game, and they found themselves 2 goals down in the 36th minute when the experienced Hlanti erred again with a poorly-judged back-pass which Pirates' Zambia attacker Augustine Mulenga latched on to before beating Peters at the near post. The lead was tripled shortly before half-time when Wits defender Nazier Allie missed the ball on the left-hand side of the Wits penalty area, but caught on to Mulenga's legs instead. Pirates other Zambian danger-man, Justin Shonga made no mistake from the penalty spot. Mulenga made it 4-0 in the 58th minute when an attempted pass in the Wits engine-room' rebounded before the ball was played into the visitors' penalty area for the Zambian to tap home wide of Peters. It really wasn't Wits' night, none more so than when Lehlohonolo Majoro had his spot kick saved in the 84th minute after a Wits players was shoved in the penalty area. Pirates, comfortably in the second spot on the league table with 52 points from 28 games, will travel to the Mother City for a tricky second-last-of-the-season league encounter against Cape Town City on Saturday. Meanwhile, Wits, who have experienced a poor season of inconsistent performances after finishing top in the 2016/2017 league campaign, sit on 33 points from 28 games, and will be desperate to get full points at home against Amazulu on Saturday, in order to avoid being pulled into the relegation mathematics. African News Agency