JOHANNESBURG, 18 April 2018 - South African Fashion Week is considered a safe space for up-and-coming designers and a platform where the audience gains knowledge of the glitz and glamour behind this multimillion industry. This year it took place at the Protea Court in Sandton City. Here’s just a taste of what @rich_mnisi has in store for us tonight! #SAFW #SS18 #StyleBySA @woolworths_sa @sandtoncitymall A post shared by  SA Fashion Week (@safashionweek) on Bloggers, stylists and influencers came in numbers to attend an entire week of Fashion Week and to witness an impeccably put together showcase of retro-futurism utilising fabric. Thebe Magugu and Rich Mini remain Fashion Week favourites. Although there was a lot of excitement emanating from the crowd, Magugu seemed to yet again surprise the purists with an outstanding job, exploring the disparity between masculinity and femininity on the runway. Although fashion enthusiasts were hungry to devour Gert Johan Coetzee's collaboration with McDonalds, they weren’t anticipating his ready-to-wear attire. Gert is known for his ball gowns and dresses. He managed to surprise the crowd with his post-modernist approach with colourful bomber jackets and sequined shorts. The highlight of the evening was his presenting the renowned South Africa actress Nomzamo Mbatha in a stunning red ball gown. A force. An icon. @NomzamoMbatha rocks this years #SAFW18 runway @SandtonCity by dancing alongside designer @gertjohan pic.twitter.com/S3TtZR2uOA Designer Black coffee is known for his macabre artistic expression in his designs, he went a different route with his Spring/Summer collection by bringing in a bit of playfulness and youthful perspective. Black Coffee revived the Warhol-esque 60’s orientated influence with a sleek, opulent and original design. SAFW 2018: Black Coffee Showcases Geometric Designs For Its SS18 Collection, Orbit https://t.co/Y1sEMzZgny South African fashion blogger Ricci-Lee Kalish also known as the Big Bad Wolf gave a full review on what occurred during Fashion Week at the Protea Court in Sandton City. eNCA