JOHANNESBURG – ANC struggle stalwart Winnie Madikizela-Mandela was remembered by her great-grandchildren as being the "biggest fighter", during her memorial at Orlando Stadium in Soweto on Wednesday. The official memorial service was hosted by the African National Congress (ANC). Madikizela-Mandela passed away on 2 April, at the age of 81, after a long illness. Guest after guest praised the "‘Mother of the Nation" for her service to the country. Here are some of the best quotes from the service: “Never forget the name of Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, she worked hard for our freedom” - Anti-apartheid activist Rita Ndzanga. “We remember her as a beautiful person, inside and out” - Nomasonto Madikizela. The struggle veteran’s grandchildren and great-grandchildren also paid their respects. “We have lost a mother and an icon” – Grandchild. #WinnieMandelaMemorial great grandchildren " I am proud to call myself her great gran child" "I will miss you big mummy" "she was a great fighter. she did her best. we love her. thank you for being the greatest gogo" #RIPMamaWinnie pic.twitter.com/meQXJIqTlj “She was the best woman in the world, the biggest fighter in the world” - Great-grandchild. READ MORE: Details of Winnie Madikizela-Mandela's funeral finalised “I believe, as Madiba did, that a saint is merely a sinner who dies trying.” - IFP leader Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi. “We appreciate the contribution Mama Winnie made during the struggle.” - AZAPO President Strike Thokoane. “As younger women, we watched as she was insulted and she is our heroine, she gave everything to us.” - ANC Deputy Secretary-General Jessie Duarte. “No one could embrace and greet people like Mama Winnie Madikizela-Mandela she would hug and embrace everyone.” - Winnie Madikizela-Mandela‘s personal assistant Zodwa Zwane. “Her home has clear view of Orlando Stadium. That home was a place of comfort to those who sought refuge. Her home will remain a monument of resilience.” - Deputy President David Mabuza. eNCA