CAPE TOWN - Mamelodi Sundowns kept their hopes of a league and cup triumph alive as they beat Cape Town City 2-1 in their Nedbank Cup quarter-final match played at the Cape Town Stadium on Sunday afternoon. Premiership log-leaders Sundowns who beat City 1-0 in a league fixture played at the same venue in February, could well have scored a handful or more goals in their cup rematch had their strikers been on-song. The dead-lock was eventually broken in the 54th minute when Zimbabwean midfielder Khama Billiat charged down the right wing, before providing the perfect cross for Percy Tau to fire into the roof of the City goal-net. READ: List of past Nedbank Cup winners Eight minutes later, Sundowns all but sealed their place in the semi-finals of the competition, when skipper Kekana unleashed a powerful shot from 30 metres out, which seemed to skid away from City goalkeeper Sage Stephens. City did not give up and managed to get on to the score-sheet in the 69th minute when striker Bradley Ralani fired towards goal from the left side of the Sundowns penalty area, with the ball taking a deflection off defender Ricardo Nascimento to leave goalkeeper Denis Onyango wrong-footed at his near post. The game could have been settled in the 74th minute when Tau manage to get away from City defender and skipper Robyn Johannes, with his shot beating the advancing goalkeeper Stephens, but was superbly cleared off the goal-line by central defender Taariq Fielies. Sundowns should have gone into the half-time break with a goal or two advantage. Billiat produced a strong build up down the left flank, before crossing to Gaston Sirino in the 27th minute. However, the Bolivian's strike rebounded off the City cross-bar and away from danger. READ: Sundowns win Nedbank Cup after messy penalty shootout In the 38th minute, the woodwork again saved City when Sibusiso Vilakazi's angled a cross from Percy Tau across the face of the home team goal with the far upright post keeping the ball out. City's best chances of the first half went to  Roland Putsche and Ayanda Patosi, with both shooting a fraction wide of Onyango's near post. Sundowns will now turn their attention to league action, and with 43 points from 23 games, will host Chippa United on Wednesday. City, with 34 points from 24 games, will be home to Golden Arrows on the same day. African News Agency