JOHANNESBURG - Annoyed football fans took to Twitter on Wednesday describing the Premier Soccer League (PSL)'s efforts to commemorate the 2001 Ellis Park tragedy as "insincere". Wednesday, marked the 17th anniversary of the Ellis Park stampede, which claimed the lives of 43 football fans attending a Soweto derby fixture between Orlando Pirates and Kaizer Chiefs. The stadium was packed to capacity with 60,000 people, but a further 30,000 fans tried to force their way in, causing a stampede. This year, the PSL says it has no events planned to commemorate the tragedy. Today we remember the supporters who tragically lost their lives during the Ellis Park disaster. They will forever be in our minds.. pic.twitter.com/Kcknklee2p In the week leading up to the anniversary, the PSL has observed moments of silence at fixtures for struggle stalwart Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, who passed away on 2 April.   The PSL's Luxolo September refused to be drawn on why the organisation wasn't making a special effort to remember the victims. “Right now we are remembering Winnie Madikizela Mandela, let us respect that,” he said. Last year two people died while trying to enter the FNB stadium during another Soweto derby clash, 21 others, including a child, were injured. What are this two teams doing for the families of the 43 fallen supporters? We need a game in honour of our fellow brothers at Ellis park every year and all proceeds must go to their families. Not this Black label beer promotion. #DOMOREFORTHE43 Too late... you were shamed to tweeted this.
		You are an embarrassment.
		You made NO plans to properly COMMEMORATE fans(custodians of football and YOUR clients that keeps your doors opened) who died "consuming your product"? SIES!#RIPEllisPark43 #EllisPark43 An inquiry which was opened to probe the stampede has since been thrown into disarray with the management at the stadium arguing that the ministerial committee is unlawful and should be nullified. In a Twitter post from the PSL and shared by Chiefs and Pirates football clubs, some fans questioned the sincerity of the post, asking if a tweet is enough to remember one of the darkest days in South African soccer history. I don't see the use of this tweet if there's no action taken..... "43" that a huge number and they've died supporting their sa team of choice and they're all remembered via a tweet post. How cheap and low is that. pic.twitter.com/COybKELa0m What are this two teams doing for the families of the 43 fallen supporters? We need a game in honour of our fellow brothers at Ellis park every year and all proceeds must go to their families. Not this Black label beer promotion. #DOMOREFORTHE43 eNCA