JOHANNESBURG - Johan Goosen appears set to make his return from "retirement" in Friday's Pro14 clash between the Cheetahs and Munster in Bloemfontein. Goosen has been training with the Cheetahs over the last month in an effort to ensure he is ready to join new French club Montpellier later this year. The former Springbok fullback is undoubtedly in need of game time when one considers that he has not played any top-level rugby since he controversially backed out of a €500,000 (R7-million) per season contract with French powerhouse club Racing 92 at the end of 2016. Although Goosen was said to have then started working as a commercial director at a saddle-horse stud farm in Bloemfontein, it emerged earlier this year that the 25-year-old was set to join Montpellier after owner Mohed Altrad agreed to buy him out of his contract with Racing. Before making the move to Montpellier, though, Goosen has made himself available to the Cheetahs until the end of June, and it appears that he could now be set to make his comeback appearance this Friday. Goosen is believed to have been training prominently in the flyhalf position this week, with regular No 10 Niel Marais looking likely to line up in the midfield. According to @Netwerk24 Johan Goosen is set to start at flyhalf for the Cheetahs' match against Munster this weekend having not played rugby since he retired in December 2016. pic.twitter.com/hHOE3qqh3a It could signal a remarkable return for Goosen, who recently opened up about just how grateful he was to have been welcomed back by the Cheetahs. "‘That (the period following his departure from Racing) was a bad time in my life, but I feel like a new person now and I am just so happy everything has been sorted out and I’m allowed to play again," he said. "Coach Franco Smith is giving me an opportunity to train with the Cheetahs and I’m sure after my long absence from the game, I can learn a few new things from him and his team. If I can teach the younger guys a thing or two in return, I’d be happy to." Besides the possible appearance of Goosen on Friday, it's also believed that former Bulls scrumhalf Rudy Paige could make his debut off the bench. The clash against Munster is also set to be watched by Bok coach Rassie Erasmus, who could be particularly interested in seeing how these two players perform. The Cheetahs and Munster will both name their teams on Thursday. African News Agency