BRISBANE - Friday’s relay at the Gold Coast Commonwealth Games could be a highlight for South Africans as the team of Akani Simbine, Henricho Bruintjies, Anaso Jobodwana and Clarence Munyai have a realistic chance to win the gold. Simbine and Bruintjies already dominated the 100m, taking gold and silver. GALLERY: Commonwealth medals keep rolling in for SA Simbine (10.03s) is currently the second fastest on the IAAF-rankings, Munyai, and Bruintjies (10.10s) jointly the 6th fastest and Jobodwana is ranked 24th (10.21s). Simbine and Bruintjies were part of the relay team that set a South African record of 38.35s at the 2014 Commonwealth Games in Glasgow. However, it was only good enough for a fourth place. The last time South Africa earned medals in a Commonwealth Games 4x100m-relay was in 2006 in Melbourne, when the team finished second. The relay is the one event in which statistics do not count for anything. It takes just one mistake in a change-over for it to be game over. The 2015 World Championships in Beijing comes to mind. South Africa’s challenge for a medal became derailed after a misunderstanding between Bruintjies and Jobodwana. Herein probably lies South Africa’s biggest challenge for Friday. It is all good and well to have the fastest individual sprinters. The question remains whether they will be able to gel as a team. Somehow the sprinters never get a proper opportunity to train together for a relay. READ: SA commends Caster Semenya's gold rush at Commonwealth Games Simbine was hoping that they will be able to do so this time. The Tuks-athlete is actually quite excited to run the relay. What an incredible night! Thank you for all the messages ---- I am truly humbled! Still hasn’t sunk in ... maybe when I wake up tomorrow I’ll realize it is not a dream. #100mGold! We did it @KINGBRUINTJIES!! ------------ pic.twitter.com/huCh0C4ppb “We got something to prove. For the last couple of years, we as sprinters have been saying if South Africa has a quality relay team we can win a medal. In the past, it has always been a case of we could have, but we did not. Now we have the opportunity to win a medal at a significant competition. “It would be interesting to see how we compare against the likes of Jamaica, England, and Canada. I am not sure which of their athletes will be doing the relay, but I think we got the best team. It is just a question of making no mistakes.” Asked what he would consider being South Africa’s best relay team, the Tuks athlete said, barring injuries, his dream team would be Bruintjies, Wayde van Niekerk, Munyai and himself. Werner Prinsloo, who coaches Simbine, said if he had any say for the relay team competing on Friday and hopefully Saturday, he would get Bruintjies to start, giving over to Munyai then Jobodwana, with Simbine sprinting for the line. Barring any mistakes, Prinsloo is of the opinion that the team can dip under 38 seconds. African News Agency