JOHANNESBURG – Randpark’s Kyle Barker overhauled Sunshine Tour winner JC Ritchie to win his second IGT Challenge Tour title with a dramatic one-shot victory in the season-opener at Killarney Country Club on Thursday. Ritchie had started the final round with a three-shot lead following a bogey-free second round 66. He mixed two bogeys with a pair of birdies to remain at nine-under, but Barker produced a flawless opening loop and reduced the gap to just one shot with birdies at the first and fifth holes. When Ritchie dropped two shots right after the turn, though, he gave Barker a foot in the door. “I had a scary moment at the ninth, but I holed a great putt to save par and that really was the kicker,” said Barker, who closed with a two-under 68 to triumph on eight-under-par 202. “Holing that putt gave me positive energy heading into the last nine holes. When JC hit it into the hazard at the 10th and I took the lead, I really felt that I could win. We both had birdies at 11 and made pars at 12 and 13. Then disaster struck.” For two holes, it didn’t look like Barker or Ritchie wanted to win. “First my tee shot at 14 got stuck up a tree or something and I had to declare a lost ball. JC took back the lead after my double bogey, but then his tee shot at 15 disappeared, too. He ended up making a bogey, but I drove it smack down the middle, hit 9-iron to five feet and holed for eagle.” The three shot swing and pars at 16 and 17 by both players meant Barker stood on the 18th tee with a two-shot lead. “I hit a great tee shot at 18 and gap-wedge to 15 feet and then I made a three-putt bogey,” said Barker. “I guess it was a day for firsts. First time I’ve ever lost a ball on a short hole and the first time I won with a bogey. I’m really pleased. I was hoping for a good week which I have managed to do. Hopefully, I can take this form into the rest of the season. This sets the tone for my season. “I went through a stretch after my win on the Mena Tour where I just didn’t enjoy the game anymore and that was kind of what got in the way at Q-School. I was disappointed to miss my card by two shots but you know, that’s what happens when you’re not ready. “I made a few changes to my process and this week, I enjoyed myself for the first time in a long while. It was good to be playing in the last group again. I hit it pretty solidly, although a few more putts should’ve dropped. But overall, I am happy. With the week. With the result. It’s definitely nice to finish in the winner’s circle again and this gives me a lot of confidence for next week and the start of the Big Easy IGT Challenge Tour season. It’s great to find good form again.” Ritchie closed with a two-over 72 slot into second on 203. Joint first-round leaders Gary Daoust from Belgium and Gary Player School member Makhetha Mazibuko finished third and fourth respectively. Daoust posted 69 to finish at five under and Mazibuko was a further two strokes adrift after a final round 70. African News Agency