BRANDFORT – Patricia De Lille: From PAC, to ID, to DA, to EFF? Hai Ke. https://t.co/Ak2ERqezEX Cape Town Mayor Patricia De Lille says she learnt from the late Winnie Madikizela-Mandela that politics is not for the faint-hearted. De Lille was speaking at an Economics Freedom Fighters memorial rally in Brandfort, where the struggle icon spent eight years after being banished to the Free State Town by the apartheid regime in 1977. “You know what I learnt from Mam' Winnie that politics is not for sissies,” a passionate De Lille said. “Politics is not for sissies. The day you are in politics there's no rules for men, no rules for women, there's just the rules and she played by the rules and played the game better than most of them. “She wasn't the kind of politician where you hit her on the one cheek and she turned her other cheek. She klapped you back." MUST WATCH: Winnie's assistant speaks of uMama's pain De Lille, who thanked the EFF for inviting her to attend and speak at the memorial ceremony, said Madikzela-Mandela taught her that the problems of the people know no political affiliation. “When you don't have a home, when you are landless, poor, it doesn't ask you which political party you belong to. She was there for every one of the poor people." #EFFWinnieMandelaMemorialService De Lille: Mama Winnie, I want to say Hambe Kahle my sister, mother of the nation, flower of the nation. Mama was tough but she cried with us. #EFFWinnieMandelaMemorialService De Lille: Mama, you might have made mistakes but being wrong was not one of them because you knew the struggles of our people. De Lille took the opportunity to lash out at Madikizela-Mandela’s critics. "They are the same critics who didn't say anything during the struggle against apartheid,” she said. “Today you can't find anyone who supported apartheid. And we are going to criticise our mother? One day, comrade Juju, we must go and fetch that voters' roll and see how they voted for apartheid in droves,” she said, addressing EFF leader Julius Malema. OBITUARY: The incredible life of Winnie Madikizela-Mandela De Lille took a swipe at present-day politicians saying they leave a lot to be desired when compared with stalwarts like Madikizela-Mandela. "What do we have today? Today we have a lot of plastic politicians who are there for their stomachs not for the people of our country,” she said. “I will remember Mam' Winnie that she remained principled. “She always stayed with the principles ... she remained firm with the principles but flexible with tactics and strategy. That's where Mam' Winnie beat the apartheid regime time and time again.” eNCA