CAPE TOWN - Record Springbok try-scorer Bryan Habana has announced his retirement at the end of the season. Habana who plays for French Top 14 side Toulon, will end his career at the conclusion of the season in June. “It’s been more than a year of hoping, trying, pushing and willing to get back on the field for one last time, to taste the sweet victory or encounter that gut-wrenching despair,” said Habana on Instagram on Tuesday. READ: Habana contemplates retirement, Boks rise in rankings “To hear the roar of the crowd or grab the pill out of the air. To make that last bone-crunching tackle or score that last game-winning try. But it’s unfortunately just not to be. I, like most, would have liked my career to have ended differently, but sometimes things don’t turn out quite the way we hope for. “So at the end of this season, it’s time to say goodbye and thank you to the game I so dearly love.” In his 124 Tests, he has scored 67 tries (335 points), second only to Daisuke Ohata of Japan with 69 tries. He also enjoyed an illustrious career in which he has won almost every domestic and international honour on offer. So it’s my turn to say Thank You: . The inevitable moment has come knocking on my door and I’ve welcomed it in for a drink. . It’s been more than a year of hoping, trying, pushing and willing to get back on the field for one last time, to taste the sweet victory or encounter that gut-wrenching despair. To hear the roar of the crowd or grab the pill out of the air. To make that last bone crunching tackle or score that last game winning try. But it’s unfortunately just not to be. I, like most, would have liked my career to have ended differently, but sometimes things don’t turn out quite the way we hope for. . So at the end of this season, it’s time to say goodbye and thank you to the game I so dearly love. . To try and sum up the past 16 years and how quickly they’ve flown by or even begin to describe how amazing the journey has been is impossible. . I would though like to express my gratitude: . • First and foremost, to God for blessing me with the talent to play this beautiful game. • To my wife Janine, Timothy and our newborn Gabriel, for your support, sacrifice and love to follow me to all corners of the earth so that I can pursue my dreams. • To my family and friends, far and wide, who wore their hearts on their sleeves as much as I did. • To the coaches, team-mates, medical and support staff in all the teams I was involved in. • To every opponent that made the battle tough and worthwhile. • To all my sponsors over the years who believed in me enough to support me on the journey. • To the fans, who make the game what it is. • To the critics, not to prove you wrong but so that I could prove to myself I could. • To the media, who take the game to households the world over. • To the lessons learnt, through the good times and the bad. • To the friendships made and experiences a plenty. . But most of all to Rugby, because for me it truly is a game made in heaven. . As a close friend one said: “memories are all we have.” And I’m immensely grateful for the memories I take with me into the next chapter. . With much respect . BH11 A post shared by  Bryan Habana (@bryanhabana_) on Habana turns 35 in June, and the 2007 Rugby World Cup winner said 2017 had been one of the tougher years in his career. "It's been an extremely frustrating few months," Habana said last year. "I got operated on in the middle of July [2017]. I've been back training with the boys for the past few weeks. Not getting any love from the coaches as yet, but hopefully, I will be getting some soon.” The prolific speedster was born in Benoni on Gauteng’s East Rand, he attended King Edward VII School in Johannesburg and went on to Rand Afrikaans University (RAU, now UJ). READ: FlashBack: Bok brilliance at RWC 2007 He came to international attention as a sevens player in the 2003-2004 World Sevens Series for the Blitzboks. 2003 and 2004 were pivotal years in the star’s career, making his debut for the Johannesburg-based Golden Lions in the Currie Cup, playing for SA Under-21s, and making his senior Springbok debut against England at Twickenham in November 2004. Although expatriate Bok fans who were at Twickenham that day may have been more disappointed with the 32-16 result, those with long memories will remember that a solitary consolation try was scored by the Boks. Fewer will remember that it was a young Habana, 21, making his debut off the bench, who scored it with his first touch in Test rugby. Since then, he has gone on to be one of the most prolific international finishers of all time. He won the Rugby World Cup in 2007, being named International Rugby Board (IRB) Player of the Year for that year. By the end of the 2015 world cup, in which the Boks ended in third place, he had equalled Jonah Lomu’s Rugby World Cup record number of tries, after scoring a hat-trick of tries against the USA at the Olympic Stadium in London to take his tally to 15. He won two Tri-Nations titles with the Boks – in 2004 and 2008, with the side which Jake White nurtured to claim the game’s highest honour in France in 2007, including fellow Bok legends Os Du Randt, Victor Matfield, Bakkies Botha, John Smit, Schalk Burger, Jean Smith and Percy Montogomery. African News Agency