DURBAN - Golden Arrows rubbed salt into the wounds of Kaizer Chiefs, as they ran out 3-1 winners over the Soweto giants, in an Absa Premiership match played at the Princess Magogo Stadium in Durban on Tuesday evening. Lerato Lamola's brace secured three vital points for Golden Arrows as they defeated the ten-men of Kaizer Chiefs 3-1 in their #AbsaPrem clash.#SSDiski pic.twitter.com/MLVTNhpWaF It took Arrows just four minutes to penetrate the Chiefs defence, when Arrows midfielder Sandile Zuke sent Lerato Lamola heading down the right side of the park, before finishing off with a right boot flick that rounded Amakhosi goalkeeper Itumeleng Khune before finishing just inside the far post. Chiefs’ problems were compounded in the 16th minute when Leonardo Castro was sent off after tramping on the leg of Arrows defender Trevor Mathiane in a tackle. While most expected Chiefs to struggle in playing with a man less, they actually seemed to gain more command of the midfield as they starved the Arrows 'engine room’ of ball possession. The visitors did manage to find the equaliser in the 44th minute, when a superb defence-splitting ball from the left by Joseph Molangoane, allowed Bernard Parker into the left side of the Arrows penalty area, before providing a left-footed chip finish over Arrows keeper Maximillian Mbaeva. Whatever Clinton Larson said to his charges during the half-time break seemed to do the trick, as they stunned Chiefs four minutes into the second period courtesy of a low cross from the left, with Lamola burying the ball home from close range. 4’| #LGA 1 : 0 #CHI
		
		Lamola scores for Arrows as his chip finds the back of the net. Lamontville Golden Arrows 1 : 0 Kaizer Chiefs #KCOneTeam #AbsaPrem With 10-men Chiefs pushing forward in search of the equaliser, Arrows managed to ensure all three points when midfielder Velemseni Ndwandwe scored on the counter-attack past Khune with close to the last kick of the match. The win moved Arrows to 34 points from 28 matches and in with a realistic chance of a top-eight finish on the league table. The KwaZulu-Natal side will have their best chance of picking up another three valuable points when they host bottom-of-the-log Platinum Stars on Saturday. Following their elimination from the Nedbank Cup by Free State Stars on Saturday, Chiefs, who are stuck in the fourth position on the league table with 42 points from 28 matches, are slowly but surely saying goodbye to a top three position finish on the log. The Amakhosi will need maximum points from their final two matches to give them a chance of ending higher than fourth. Their next league match will be a home encounter against third-on-the-log Maritzburg United on Saturday. African News Agency