LONDON - Euro zone government bond yields dipped as a trade dispute between the US and China flared up again, and they may fall further if US jobs data due later on Friday fall short of expectations. Government bonds in major developed economies, considered a safe investment in uncertain times, have seesawed this week as US President Donald Trump wrangles with Beijing over tariffs, raising prospects of a full-blown trade war between the world's two largest economies. An apparent easing in tensions earlier in the week pushed euro zone yields higher as investors shed safe-haven assets. That move reversed on Friday after Trump directed US trade officials to identify options for tariffs on $100-billion (R1.2-trillion) more of Chinese imports. European Central Bank board member Benoit Coeure said that fears of a trade war are already raising borrowing costs and pushing down share prices, and have "contributed to tighter financial conditions". READ: Asian stocks tread water ahead of US jobs data The yield on 10-year German government debt, the euro zone benchmark, dipped one basis point in early trade to 0.51 percent, erasing much of Thursday's rise. "Yesterday, yields were rising on hopes that China and the US will find a solution, but with the change in sentiment, yields are retracting," DZ Bank strategist Sebastian Fellechner said. "But the bigger picture is that the market is pricing in trade tensions if you look at where Bund yields are now." Persistently low inflation and a scaling back of expectations for European economic growth are also fuelling demand for euro zone bonds. German 10-year yields are about 30 basis points below the high they reached in February, and most other euro zone yields are similarly below equivalent highs, hit on expectations the European Central Bank would tighten policy. READ: US trade deficit rises despite record American exports The Bank of Italy urged the ECB on Friday to be cautious in tightening monetary policy, warning of the risks of a sudden end to asset buying or sharp rises in interest rates. US employment figures due later could change the short-term trajectory of the market, DZ Bank's Fellechner said. Expectations are that 193,000 jobs were added, according to a Reuters poll. Any reading above that could strengthen the case for rate hikes and push US Treasury yields, as well as European equivalents, higher. The yield on 10-year US Treasuries was one bps lower at 2.82 percent in European trade, and the gap over the German equivalent was 230 bps, just a few basis points below the one-year high in March. Reuters