JOHANNESBURG - President Cyril Ramaphosa has expressed his sadness at the death of ANC stalwart  Zola Skweyiya. We would like to extend our condolences on the passing of former Minister, Zola Skweyiya. #ZolaSkweyiya passed away this morning. https://t.co/qoxiMeWYxP pic.twitter.com/6Cx2HUPQX9 The former cabinet minister and High Commissioner to the United Kingdom died on Wednesday in hospital aged 75. “Our thoughts, as colleagues and comrades, go out to the family and friends of Dr Skweyiya who served our country with great passion and distinction during his time in the cabinet and the diplomatic service,” said Ramaphosa. “Dr Skweyiya’s endearing engagement and his contribution to our society - especially his role as the first minister to lead the public service in a democratic South Africa - will be greatly missed and honoured.” President Cyril Ramaphosa has expressed his sadness at the passing away of Dr #ZolaSkweyiya - former Cabinet Minister and High Commissioner to the United Kingdom. https://t.co/8PwX9YVwkr WATCH: Winnie Madikizela-Mandela's grandchildren pay tribute to her Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba hailed Skweyiya as a creative thinker, who contributed immensely to the development of the country. “Dr Zola Skweyiya was an incredible leader. He belonged to the generation that gave us hope, that inspired confidence in us of an impending victory against apartheid. “They led our horizons and kept the fires of our struggle burning. “We are really saddened at his loss. I had the privilege to work closely with him and Winnie 9Madikizela-Mandela. He was a very honest and forthright man, in his thinking and articulation. A very profound intellectual.” READ: ANC veteran Zola Skweyiya calls for Zuma's resignation EFF deputy president Floyd Shivambu said Skweyiya was among the very few people in the top ANC leadership structure that stood by the then ANC Youth League structure that was disbanded and some of whose leaders were subsequently expelled from the party. “Dr Zola Skweyiya was among the very few people in the NEC (national executive committee) of the ANC when a report was presented to expel the leadership of the ANC Youth League. He stood firm and said such must not be allowed,” said Shivambu. Skweyiya had argued for the youth, saying they added value to the ANC at that time. "We know he was not scared of young people. “He was engaging them and was not scared of anyone in terms of what he stood for. So we send our condolences to his family, the ANC and those who surrounded him,” Shivambu said. Skweyiya served as minister of Public Service and Administration from 1994 to 1999 and later as minister of Social Development before retiring as a Member of Parliament in 2009.
	
	In the same year, he was appointed High Commissioner to the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland. #ZolaSkweyiya; another giant has fallen
		
		Just as way said goodbye to Mama Winnie, we hear Dr Zola Skweyiya has left us. Another giant has fallen just three days before his birthday.
		
		He was a thinker and a man... https://t.co/OPHwMEPgtZ We mourn the departure of a stalwart, a veteran of our struggle and a true revolutionary democrat who used his immense legal knowledge to lead the fight for the creation of the human right culture embedded in our constitution #ZolaSkweyiya He was one of the highly respected legal minds and intellectuals of our movement
		He was known as a voice of reason and always demonstrated maturity and depth of understanding of the complexity of our political situation #ZolaSkweyiya eNCA