DURBAN - Kaizer Chiefs will host Free State Stars in a Nedbank Cup semifinal final on Saturday night at the Moses Mabhida Stadium and will be hoping to bag a win so that they can maximise their chances of ending the season with some silverware. Amakhosi began their Ke Yona (Nedbank Cup) campaign with a win over Golden Arrows, Stellenbosch FC and defeated Baroka FC in the previous round. Turning to Chiefs’ Absa Premiership campaign, the Soweto giants beat Stars at Goble Park just a few weeks ago. For the Bethlehem-based outfit, Stars are out to wrap up their campaign with their first trophy since 1994 (Coca-Cola Cup now known as the Telkom Knockout Cup) and the new generation will want to rewrite the history books. Under the guidance of Luc Eymael, the side has had an excellent campaign as they are placed No 5 on the log. So far in the Nedbank Cup Stars have defeated Super Eagles, Ubuntu Cape Town FC and Chippa United at home. With Eymael yet to taste glory in South Africa and tipped to replace Steve Komphela as new the AmaKhosi boss, he will want to outshine his counterpart. Chiefs midfielder Siphelele Ntshangase said: “We haven’t won a trophy for two seasons," Ntshangase said. "We definitely want to reach the final, which will give us an opportunity to win something. “It’s all about the team. I have to be ready whenever I am asked to play. If I get a chance I will grab it with both hands. Free State will not be easy to beat, but we will be prepared.” Free State Stars captain Paulus Masehe felt by winning the Nedbank Cup, the team could leave a legacy. “It will be fair for this generation of players who did so well this season to at least achieve something and leave a legacy," he said. “I also want to leave by emulating the class of 1994. “This team has been part of my life and it will only be fair to at least win something before I hang up my boots and rewrite the history books of the club. “We will try and fight with everything against Chiefs so we can be able to reach the final. It will not be easy, but as much as they want it we are also hungry for it as well.” Chiefs Itumeleng Khune will again be at the heart of the team's drive for success. He will want the team to evade a third season without silverware. His leadership from the back will be vital as will his ability to stop shots. Ali Sangare, the Free State Stars keeper made his debut appearance for Stars this term and has not disappointed so far. His understanding and communication with the back four will be crucial for their ticket to Cape Town for the final. Stars' Ghanaian forward Mohamed Anas has the potential to unlock Chiefs’s defence in search of matchwinning goals and pose a threat to the hosts. – African News Agency (ANA), Editing by Herman Gibbs African News Agency