JOHANNESBURG – The Gupta family is set to launch an urgent application in the North Gauteng High Court on Thursday, challenging a search and seizure order from the Asset Forfeiture Unit (AFU). It relates to the seizure of the rehabilitation funds for the Guptas' Koornfontein and the Optimum Coal mines. This was done to prevent any looting of the money. On Monday, the AFU also laid claim to dozens of cars and properties belonging to the Guptas, raiding the family's Saxonwold compound. In a statement sent by the family's lawyers to TimesLIVE on Wednesday night, the family called the Hawks and National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) "incompetents" engaged in a "witch hunt" against the family. LISTICLE: Seized Gupta assets revealed BDK Attorneys, which represents the family, is demanding that police provide proof that a warrant of arrest has been issued for Ajay Gupta. The Hawks and former police minister Fikile Mbalula previously said he was a fugitive from justice. The Hawks had also said Atul Gupta is wanted for corruption related to the Estina Dairy Project. WATCH: Duduzane Zuma, Dudu Myeni & Guptas could face arrest The firm said that the Gupta brothers – Ajay, Atul and Rajesh – were not home during Monday's raid, but that they are "currently overseas on business." "They look across the world at South Africa and are appalled as to how a democratic state should have fallen into such disrepair that a senior and essential part of the justice system – the NPA – so completely fails in its duty to provide a copy of an arrest warrant to someone whom they publicise as a fugitive from justice," BDK Attorneys Director Rudi Krause wrote in the statement sent to TimesLIVE. WATCH: Man who filmed Ajay Gupta urged to leave Dubai “And at the same time, those very incompetents bring an ultimately unsuccessful application to our courts based on a sheer failure to understand commerce‚ banking and the world of business‚” he said. BDK Attorneys slammed the "media frenzy of anti-Gupta negative sentiment". Thursday's court application will likely be postponed, as it is understood the Organisation Undoing Tax Abuse (Outa) wants to join the matter as friends of the court. eNCA