JOHANNESBURG – While the Munsieville police station was set alight during the violent Krugersdorp protests, the Kagiso police station, just a few kilometres away, was the birthplace of a baby boy. Nani Windy Moatshe, a nurse at the Dr Yusuf Dadoo Hospital, delivered the infant while off-duty on Monday morning as the residents blocked entry into and out of the area. Messages circulated at the weekend urging residents of townships in Mogale City to stay away from school and work on Monday in order to protest against crime, human trafficking and drugs. Moatshe, however, in her normal Monday-morning routine, prepared to go to work. But she returned home a few minutes after leaving her house as residents had barricaded roads with burning tyres and rocks. All major routes in the township were congested with traffic as roads were blocked. READ: Police fire rubber bullets at Krugersdorp protesters Moatshe, still dressed in her nurse’s uniform, was spotted by two female protesters as she made her way back home. “Those two ladies came to my house and alerted me to a woman who was experiencing labour pains at the local police station,” she said. “I took a pair gloves of unused gloves and went to the police station. When I got to the station, I found the pregnant lady sitting on the couch in the presence of female police officers. “I examined her and realised that she was ready to deliver the baby. We put her on the floor so she could be comfortable, I instructed her what to do until she delivered the baby.” READ: Krugersdorp residents deny they are anti foreigners Moatshe, who has been a nurse for 22 years, said the umbilical cord was cut at the police station. Both mother and child were healthy after the birth, but were transported by ambulance to Leratong Hospital in Kagiso, she said. “When paramedics finally arrived at the police station, I relayed all the information to them, they checked both the mother and child’s vital signs and found out that they were both okay.” Moatshe said she was happy to have helped a stranded community member during the violent protests. “I was happy that under the comprising situation, I managed to help the delivery baby properly,” said the Kagiso Extension 2 resident. “Should I have gone to work then this lady would have been stranded at the police station with officers who wouldn’t have known what to do. “I was very happy to have helped a community member without any loss of life.” Kagiso police spokesperson Captain Solly Sibiya said the baby was delivered without any problem. eNCA