CAPE TOWN - Cape Town mayor, Patricia De Lille is to be formally charged by the Democratic Alliance (DA) and stands accused of having negatively affected the standing of the party, amongst other issues.  She has not been suspended and has to report to work on Monday, but some of her duties have been delegated to councilors.   8 - #DeLille ill-advisedly in her public communication has sought to prosecute a false narrative as to the motives of the #DAFedex. This is regrettable as it has misled the public & masked the very serious concerns about her leadership & effective governance of the City. 9 - We simply have no time to waste, and are confident that with these measures in place that governance in the interim will be stabilized in the City of Cape Town, and that we have the best chance possible to avoid day zero #DeLille The announcement was made by the party's leader, Mmusi Maimane who said De Lille had not displayed respect for the party's due processes.  Speaking to eNCA shortly after the announcement, De Lille said it was a huge relief that justice had prevailed and, specifically, that she was not suspended and that the DA was not supporting a motion of no confidence in her.  She welcomed the opportunity to clear her name, saying the allegations brought against her need to be tested and dealt with.  She was, however, disappointed that she was beings stripped of certain powers before the disciplinary process had run its course.  Responding to allegations that she belittled councilors, she said she wanted to reach out to those making the accusations, but did not know who they were. She noted she has tough targets set for her by the DA, and that politics is a "rough and tough" environment.  She said she does not regret joining the DA and remains a committed member of the party.  De Lille broke down at a prayer service in Langa on Sunday as the DA was considering steps against her and whether it's lost confidence in her leadership. pic.twitter.com/DzSHLSQxZM @PatriciaDeLille breaks down after a prayer that she's treated fairly by the DA FedEx #DeLille pic.twitter.com/PSMu2MrYv7 Thank you World Harvest Christian Ministry in Langa for inviting me for prayer and encouragement. I remain as committed as ever to serving the people of Cape Town. My heartfelt thanks also goes to the many people across Cape Town and South Africa for their messages of support. pic.twitter.com/EXiOmdVSqO De Lille stood accused of maladministration and corruption. A number of her supporters gathered at the World Harvest Christian Ministry to pray for her. READ: De Lille in the hot seat but not facing charges per se Earlier, she attended a meeting with the DA's Federal Executive. At least one political analyst believes the DA may face tough consequences for taking on de Lille without having concrete proof against her. eNCA