PRETORIA - Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa on Tuesday said people found to be sabotaging the country's economy through acts of corruption, fraud and money laundering must be jailed. He was speaking at a meeting of the National Economic Development and Labour Council's Organised Labour School in Pretoria. Ramaphosa said potential investors are wary of increased corruption and governance issues at state-owned enterprises (SOEs). The deputy president said Eskom is a prime example of how SOEs are used to line the pockets of certain individuals and families. READ: Duduzane Zuma, Guptas promised to look after me: Lucky Montana He told Nedlac while the company is supposed to be the engine of the country's economy it has become dysfunctional at a governance level. “The prosecuting authorities need to be reformed so that our people can have trust in them. Why does it take so long to go after people who we know have committed certain wrong things against the people? We need those institutions to be strengthened, to be reformed so that they can do their work.” Ramaphosa also promised to facilitate work for unemployed youth and said the mandate of competition authorities is being expanded to eliminate monopoly control, as part of government's focus on radical economic transformation. WATCH: 'Short-circuiting' Eskom lays bare its finances Union representatives are calling on government to ensure closer co-operation and co-ordination to ensure a more inclusive and sustainable economy. “Don't tell us you are going to work with us, but when it comes to implementation we don't see labour there. When you go to Davos you say you represent workers and business, but when you go you leave us behind. We want to see a real partnership, transparent and principled partnership,” said trade union federation Fedusa's Dennis George. Ramaphosa said he supports the implementation of free higher education for the children of the poor and working class because it will do much to accelerate the inclusion of the majority of poor black young South Africans in the economy. eNCA