JOHANNESBURG – An action-packed league match at a near-capacity FNB Stadium on Saturday night had everything but goals as Kaizer Chiefs and Mamelodi Sundowns played to a 0-0 draw. Sundowns had a great chance to open the scoring in the first minute of the game when Khama Billiat cut in from the left and put in dangerous cross, which narrowly eluded Sibusiso Vilakazi just two yards out from goal. Chiefs' first opportunity arrived in the eighth minute after a blunder from 'Downs keeper Denis Onyango resulted in a chance for Dumisani Zuma, but his effort deflected off a defender and away from goal. #AbsaPrem - RESULT:
		Kaizer Chiefs 0-0 Mamelodi Sundowns
		
		It ends goalless between Chiefs and the league leaders. pic.twitter.com/J3DKE8mRyw There was another opportunity for the Glamour Boys six minutes later when Ryan Moon headed wide from a good position before Zuma drew a save from Onyango with a stinging drive on 20 minutes. The Soweto side continued to dominate first half proceedings and were again close to scoring after 31 minutes, when Siphiwe Tshabalala's cross took a deflection off Bangaly Soumahoro and narrowly missed finding its way into goal. READ: Chiefs and Sundowns' long rivalry continues on Saturday The Brazilians could, however, have nicked a goal in the 38th minute when a long ball from Hlompho Kekana was poorly cleared by Chiefs defender Daniel Cardoso, the ball going to Percy Tau, but from close range his header went straight at goalkeeper Itumeleng Khune. The action died down somewhat after the break, and both coaches went to their benches to bring on new striker signings Leonardo Castro and Jeremy Brockie for Chiefs and Sundowns respectively. Congratulations to ABSA Man of the Match: @D_cardoso_7 #AbsaPrem #KCOneTeam pic.twitter.com/zYbDViJ4oD The coach talks to us post match.#Sundowns pic.twitter.com/B2HXYdSdz4 Brockie soon got in on the action and should have scored 20 minutes from time when Oupa Manyisa crossed brilliantly, but the New Zealand international sent his volley wide from close range. Chiefs survived a double scare in the 78th minute when Tau volleyed against the upright, before Brockie struck the crossbar with the rebound. Willard Katsande headed over the bar three minutes from time as the game remained on a knife-edge while Sundowns substitute Gaston Sirino could have sealed it late for Pitso Mosimane's team, but lacked the power to beat Khune as the match ended scoreless. AFP