JOHANNESBURG – It is a race against time for Eskom as deadline looms for the entity to produce its financial statements. Eskom is struggling to publish its financial report with auditors not able to balance its books. It is hoped the appointment of the utility’s new board will go some way to restoring confidence at the troubled parastatal. The Johannesburg Stock Exchange has given Eskom until the end of January to publish its financials or have its bonds suspended from the exchange and foreign debt capital markets. Failure to do so could trigger a default letter by the World Bank and activate a 14-day recall on its nearly $4-billion debt. Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa has meanwhile scheduled a meeting with the World Bank at the World Economic Forum in Davos this week, and will attempt to persuade the lenders that Eskom is on a better footing. There is hope that the power utility’s new 13 member board headed by businessman Jabu Mabuza, which has been widely welcomed, will give Eskom a reprieve when going to the markets to raise funds. “It does give a lot of confidence that they are starting to deal with the issues. However, the new CFO comes with very little institutional knowledge and will have to deal with the previous audit results or audit findings by the auditor general and that could take some time,” political economist Siya Biniza said. Eskom failed to publish its financials last year amid claims that its auditors Sizwe Ntsaluba Gobodo did not sign off on the figures. The power utility is said to be broke, and cannot pay staff and creditors. READ: Eskom executives to learn their fate soon It is being reported that Eskom together with National Treasury are approaching local banks to restore the company's credit facility. It needs to raise R20-billion over the next few weeks to convince its auditors that it can keep its head above water. Biniza argues that Eskom is unlikely to raise the required funds on time. “The Minister of Finance has made it clear that there is no fiscal space to provide any cash and payout to save Eskom and they will have to rely on local development finance institutions or the local private banks, but it’s too short a time.” He says banks might be interested in lending to Eskom, but this will depend on the programme of the new CEO, the new executive team and what kind of restructuring will take place during their term. eNCA