JOHANNESBURG - The SABC confirmed Chris Maroleng has been appointed its new Chief Operating Officer (COO). He replaces the disgraced Hlaudi Motsoeneng. Maroleng had been working as group executive for corporate affairs at cellular giant, MTN. He also spent six years as eNCA Africa's editor. In a statement, the SABC said Maroleng has "demonstrated considerable management and financial acumen and he is familiar with the cutting-edge Fourth Industrial Revolution issues that the SABC needs to embrace going forward. "He understands South Africa’s legislative and regulatory environment and his knowledge of broadcasting on the continent is invaluable as the SABC develops its coverage of, and in Africa." READ: Social development payment breached broadcaster's rules: SABC board Maroleng said he accepts "the position at the SABC with deep humility, and appreciate the confidence that the Board has shown in me. I look forward to playing a role, as part of an executive team, in transforming the SABC into a world-class public broadcaster that is responsive to the needs of all South Africans.” The public broadcaster has been struggling with editorial credibility, as well as major financial troubles. Most recently, the SABC came under fire for breaching its own rules when it accepted a R500,000 payment from the Department of Social Development to conduct an interview with minister Bathabile Dlamini. The SABC said advertisements to fill the positions of group CEO and CFO have been placed. Meanwhile, Parliament's Portfolio Committee on Communications welcomed Maroleng's appointment. "The Committee is confident that the SABC board has selected the most suitable candidate for this position and trusts that the board has exhausted all legal processes in the appointment. "Looking at Mr Maroleng’s experience, expertise and qualifications, the chairperson has full confidence that he will bring stability and lead the previously-embattled SABC on the growth trajectory that is urgently required," said committee chair Humprey Maxegana in a statement. eNCA