JOHANNESBURG - It's been a great holiday but now it's time to get back to your day job. Take comfort from the knowledge that you are certainly not alone in feeling deflated and even apprehensive. It happens to the best of us.  But here are some ways to get back into the routine when you really would rather not: 1. Eat breakfast. Your mother was right, it is good for you. If you don't have time to eat at home, prepare something to take into the office. It will improve your mood and energy level. Going back to work after the holidays like... -- #2018IsHere #newyearsday #WinterClassic #trending #frenchbulldog #frenchie #backtowork #Starting2018 pic.twitter.com/rN78CVCMcM 2. Get yourself a new work calendar. Scenic beaches, inspiring quotes or whacky humour, choose whatever will lift your work days to come.  Defo shooting the first person who says “oh no I just wrote 2017” tomorrow.
		
		Or anyone that tries to bring in their edible gifts that they don’t want as “office treats”. Leave your shit gifts at home Linda**
		
		*names changed to protect privacy #Backtoworkblues 3. Reclaim your desk and desktop. Trash papers, post-its and downloads you no longer need. Add a personal touch in the form of a photo, plant or online wallpaper.  Accurate representation of me right now #backtowork pic.twitter.com/7Wa1bksKRZ 4. Give yourself something to look forward to after work such as a get together with a friend, a drink or an hour in front of the TV with your feet up. 5. Tackle your inbox. Delete. Delete. And delete some more. It's better to do this by name or subject than chronologically. Sort what's left into folders. 6. Take on an easy task first. Allow yourself to ease back into the rhythm of things. #backtowork current status pic.twitter.com/y4L0mDcbVw 7. Do not go onto Facebook or Instagram. Who needs to be reminded how much fun is over or how some other people are still chillaxing on the beach or at home? 8. Set your work goals for the year. Make them challenging but do-able. Today, we're #backtowork and ready to take on the world! Anyone else feeling #motivated? C'mon 2018 ---- pic.twitter.com/xvl6OXKm4l 9. Repeat the above tomorrow. eNCA