CAPE TOWN - It's a new year and the start of a new sporting season, which always means athlete's and their families are scrambling to raise funds so they can go represent the country. One such athlete is Paralympian Goldy Fuchs who needs R220,000 per year to be able to compete in two World Cups and the World Championships each year. He also needs funds to pay for a cycling coach as well as travelling and roughly R50,000 to be able to buy a new tricycle frame. Fuchs who has won 10 medals at international level, represented South Africa internationally in thirteen UCI Para-cycling Road World Cup events, four Para-cycling Road World Championships and the Paralympics only has his mother Janine Fuchs as his support structure. "I only have my mother supporting me and not any other support structure in place. Cycling SA doesn't have money to support me in any way. SASCOC also said they only look at World Championships, but how can I medal at World Champs without any support to get me to that level of competition," said Fuchs. Like most athletes, Goldy Fuchs dreams of not just representing his country in Tokyo 2020 and coming home with a medal but fears the lack of financial support may hinder his goal. "My biggest dream is to win the World Championships and to medal at the 2020 Tokyo Para-Olympics, but with no support, this will always be a huge challenge for me to achieve, participating in a very competitive class with competitors getting full support form their countries," said Fuchs. The national T2 champion and world number eight acquired his disability in a motor vehicle accident when he was five months old. As a result of the accident, the strength of his right arm and left leg are poor which affects his balance and he only has 50% vision in his left eye. He also lost his father in the accident. The para-athlete is classified as an asymmetrical quadriplegic and competes using a tricycle because he can't balance on a two-wheel bicycle. The athletes' mother says she always saw great potential in her son but struggles to keep him on the road without proper sponsors to help pay for coaching, equipment and high-performance training. "As Goldy's mom, I always saw his huge potential as a Para-cyclist, but with no support from any federation or a corporate sponsor, I struggle to keep Goldy on the road, not even mentioning the huge struggle to reach his dream of becoming World Champion. I have seen other International T2 cyclists, the same age as Goldy, advanced hugely in the past few years, but without any support, Goldy will not be able to lift his game to the same level on which they are now. It is impossible to get to their level without a coach (which I cannot afford), new equipment (which I have to pay for) and high-performance training, said Janine Fuchs, para-athlete's mother. The 26-year-old who has been cycling at international level since 2010 says the isn't enough corporate sponsors supporting para-athletes." My mom has sent out many proposals to corporate sponsors since 2010, with no positive results so far. There are a few that assists me with my travelling and entry fees, but no financial support to assist with my coaching and overseas tours," said Fuchs. The para-athlete noted that even though the are a lot of promising para-cyclists in South Africa many of them stop competing because it's not financially viable.  - Palesa Manaleng eNCA