JOHANNESBURG - Cape Town Mayor Patricia de Lille has a tough weekend ahead. The Democratic Alliance (DA)'s Federal Executive meets on Sunday to discuss her future as the leader of the City of Cape Town. DA Federal Executive Chairperson James Selfe said there are no charges against De Lille per se. "There are a number of worrying aspects of political management that were identified and that were investigated by a committee, under the chairpersonship of John Steenhuisen. She has been provided with a copy of that report and she has commented in detail on the allegations that were made in that report. In the end, it has less to do with whether she has done right or wrong. It has more [do with] whether the party has confidence in her ability to lead a complicated city and a very big cause." The case against de Lille has been marked by a maelstrom of accusations, counter-accusations and denials by those involved in the public fallout. It started with claims that de Lille benefitted unlawfully from renovations and security upgrades to her home. Mayoral Committee Member for Safety and Security JP Smith has been blamed for leaking the information, leading to a public spat. Both were placed on special leave by the DA and barred from participating in party matters. The Auditor General and council speaker have since cleared her of any wrongdoing in this matter. This week, de Lille threatened to sue Smith and those who had accused her of stealing ratepayers' money. WATCH: 'I'm going to sue the hell out of those who claim I stole': De Lille Smith denies he leaked the information and claims de Lille's threat of legal action smacks of a cover-up. "I always become very nervous when people make threats of legal action. Not nervous of the legal action because if you've spoken to the truth, you have no concerns about what you've said. But it is indicative of a person who is attempting to silence whistleblowers," Smith added. WATCH: Tony Leon speaks on De Lille's debacle Then, a damning affidavit emerged by Executive Director in the Mayor's Office, Craig Kesson. He places the city's transport head, Melissa Whitehead, at the centre of multi-million rand dodgy tender deals related to the unfinished Foreshore bridge project and MyCiti bus fare system.
	He further claims that City Manager Achmat Ebrahim failed to act and that de Lille had turned a blind eye. Last week, a report by the Bowman Gilfillan investigators, tabled before council, corroborated these claims. De Lille has cited several inaccuracies in the report. Throughout the debacle, de Lille has pleaded for a chance to clear her name. Selfe says she will be given that opportunity when the federal executive meets. eNCA