CAPE TOWN - Western Cape Premier Helen Zille will brief education and health authorities on the province's emergency plans should Cape Town's taps run dry on 12 April. In a statement on Tuesday, spokesperson Michael Mpofu said most health facilities have been secured, but that Zille will hold a briefing with their CEOs via video conference. READ: 2018 Cape Town Cycle Tour will go ahead despite water crisis "The Province’s Groundwater programme has targeted Health Facilities as the highest priority. Drilling of boreholes has taken place at these facilities. Further testing and reticulation systems are being dealt with." A closed meeting will take place on Tuesday afternoon, but a statement will be released to the media. On Wednesday, Zille will turn her attention to school principals in the greater Cape Town, Drakenstein, Stellenbosch and West Coast municipalities (that draw water from the Western Cape Water Supply system). "There are about 1,000 schools within this area. The provincial government has conducted an assessment of the approximately 400 schools with existing boreholes. The majority of these boreholes require minimal work to operationalise for hygiene and fire safety purposes." The statement said the Western Cape government wants all schools to remain open should Cape Town reach Day Zero. "Plans are currently being finalised for schools that require additional support to secure their water supply. A range of measures is under consideration, including additional water storage and the distribution of water to schools." Zille will also attend the extended Cabinet Legkotla with President Jacob Zuma on Friday, and has already written to the president to request that a National Disaster is declared in light of the drought gripping the Cape, the statement added. "The National Disaster Management Act creates a provision for a national disaster when more than one province is affected, or when additional resources are required to mitigate the national ramifications of a disaster. There are areas experiencing severely low dam levels, including parts of the Eastern Cape, particularly in the water supply network of Nelson Mandela Bay. Premier Zille will seek an update on whether her request will be acceded to, at the meeting on Friday." African News Agency