CAPE TOWN – A joint project steering committee will be established to monitor progress in resolving criminal activities on the railway lines, which had forced the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa) to suspend its services in the central line of Cape Town, trade union Untu said on Wednesday. The services on the busiest line running between Khayelitsha and Mitchells Plain to the CBD was suspended last week after a security guard was shot dead at Chris Hani Station in Khayelitsha. The committee will jointly be chaired by South African Police Service (Saps) Major General Michael Motlala and Prasa Acting Group Chief Executive Cromet Molepo. In a meeting with key stakeholders on Wednesday, consisting of high-level representatives from Saps, Cosatu, Fedusa, the United National Transport Union (Untu), the South Africa Transport Allied Workers' Union (Satawu) and the South African National Civic Organisation (Sanco), Western Cape officials resolved that Prasa faced extreme challenges in combating criminal activities on the railway lines. READ: Prasa banned from manually authorising trains Molepo invited the parties to the meeting in an effort to join hands to address the ongoing onslaught on the rail infrastructure that is greatly affecting workers, commuters, communities, employees and the economy. According to a statement, Untu members refused to be deployed on the central line until such time that Prasa implement drastic measures to ensure the safety of their members against ongoing criminal activities.The parties reached a collective agreement about the Central Line on Monday night, which in the main will deal with both the operational and security matters. However, all parties agreed that that there is still a long way to solve the socio-economic challenges the railway system is confronted with. Speaking at the joint meeting, Molepo said: “The stakeholders call upon communities to be our eyes and ears and report crime and isolate these criminal elements within our communities. If there is no market for the stolen goods, there will be no need for crime. Those individuals who are brave enough to stand up and make a difference, will be protected”. He further emphasised that this challenge can only be resolved if there is intergovernmental collaboration between all three spheres of government. WATCH: Regulator explains why Prasa ban was lifted Meanwhile, Janine Myburgh, President of the Cape Chamber of Commerce and Industry said it is a great pity that the year had to start with a disrupted train service  causing a negative effect on businesses. “In a survey conducted by the Chamber amongst its members in September 2017, we found some very disturbing trends affecting businesses. For example, over 86 percent of respondents agreed that our commuting problems is a threat to the viability of their businesses.” She added that it is going to be difficult for businesses to recover from the lost productivity as the situation also places chronic stress on commuters. “In the survey I mentioned previously, more than 50 percent businesses said they were aware of job losses as a result of the ensuing attendance problems. Coupled with the current drought, and the fact that agriculture and tourism is a large part of our GDP, these are challenging  times for business in the Western Cape.” African News Agency