JOHANNESBURG - Not only is she a published author at the tender age of ten but 1,000 copies of Buhle Mthethwa's book, The Big Fat Naughty Cat, has now been handed out to her peers. The Grade 5 pupil from Mooifontein Primary School in Kempton Park is the recipient of the Cell C Acts of Kindness campaign, that donated the money to print the books, which were distributed to Grade 1 to 4 learners at Thabaneng Lower Primary School in Orlando West, Soweto on Tuesday. Miss South Africa, Adé van Heerden, and the budding writer herself were there. Two queens on a mission. What an honour to meet 10-year-old author, Buhle Mthethwa this morning.
		
		Look out @jk_rowling, we've got some homegrown literary mavens on the rise. pic.twitter.com/rqrWW4tL11 Mthethwa has been featured in a Top 10 South African heroes list and has been nominated for the Girl Child Awards, taking place in March, by the Premier of Gauteng David Makhura. She developed her passion for reading in Grade 1 when she realised some of her friends could not read properly. She started helping them after school, using books from the library and also started a book club at her family home for readers aged between four and 14. “I love reading and I want to share my passion with other children and encourage them to read and write from an early age.” The Big Fat Naughty Cat was published in 2017 and tells the story of a young girl called Lira, her family and a cat that is ugly, dirty and always hungry. Lira picks up the cat, takes it home and cleans it. It is welcomed into the family home with love. But Lira and her family are disappointed when the animal does not appreciate their kindness. This little girl with a big dream wrote a book and @CellC helped her distribute 1000 books to Thabaneng Primary School.
		
		Please join us in melting over this little queen, Buhle Mthethwa. pic.twitter.com/mk7nKL53Lg The foreword to the book is written by her school principal Jorrie Jordaan. Miss South Africa called Mthethwa an “inspiration and role model for the youth”. Managing Executive Corporate Social Investment at Cell C, Suzette van der Merwe, said: “We were incredibly impressed by Buhle’s achievements and her desire to promote reading and the love of books in disadvantaged schools." eNCA