DURBAN – A policeman was sentenced to ten years in prison by the Durban Magistrate's Court on Monday after he shot and killed a teenager during a protest in 2013. Nqobile Nzuza (17), a matriculant at the time of her death, was shot in the back by junior officer Phumlani Ndlovu, during a road blockade that turned violent in Cato Crest, an informal settlement just west of the University of KwaZulu-Natal’s Howard College campus, on September 30, 2013. The protest was one of many flare-ups between shack-dwellers and police. According to Abahlali baseMjondolo (Abahlali) -- a movement that describes itself as “the largest organisation of the militant poor in post-apartheid South Africa” -- Nzuza joined the Abahlali-led blockade to protest the “brutal attacks” and “illegal evictions” in the area. READ: Police shoot man in Braamfontein Ndlovu continued serving in the police during the trial after he was cleared by an internal investigation. He denied that he shot Nzuza, even though ballistic evidence linked his gun to the killing. The court had heard that Ndlovu discharged his gun for the first time on the day the young woman was shot. Magistrate Anand Maharaj said the shooting was understandable but not justifiable. “Throughout the trial initially one got the impression that it was self-defence, but we find out there were shots in the air and shots in the ground, but you can’t say he acted in self-defence and shot someone in the back,” said Maharaj. “The finding I have to make is that he fired into the crowd. That is the most likely probability. He came up with different versions of shooting into the air and then into the ground but nobody wants to explain to me how was this child shot in the back.” READ: Police officer shoots several family members, one dead Maharaj also said that although the protest had turned violent, there was no evidence that the teenager was acting violently; instead, she appeared to be trying to escape the violence. President and founder of Abahlali, S’bu Zikode, told African News Agency (ANA) he was disappointed that Ndlovu had received less than 15 years and was granted leave to appeal. “But we accept and welcome the judgment because the policeman is now in jail and will finally lose his job and all benefits,” said Zikode. “This will send a clear message to hooligan police officers and will also send a message to those politicians who think they can hide behind the police,” he said. African News Agency