JOHANNESBURG - It’s never a good time to release disappointing news to investors but now is probably one of the worst times. As one analyst says, investors have become extremely jittery in the wake of the Steinhoff scandal. “The post-Steinhoff market is ultrasensitive to any bad news, it’s even sensitive to rumours,” says the analyst. In this context, it probably wasn’t too surprising that the Woolworths share price slumped almost 9% in early trade on Monday following the release of a trading update that disappointed the market. Investors hadn’t been expecting much, but Woolies failed to deliver on even weak expectations. The figures indicate a deterioration in the group’s performance since the 20-week update was released in December. South African clothing and David Jones were the most disappointing segments, while SA Food remained the standout performer with growth comfortably ahead of expectations. READ: Shoprite guns for Woolworths' upmarket customers Perhaps most worrying was that the sluggish performance of David Jones, which had been ahead of the national average, has now dropped below it. Reports that the carrying value of the David Jones assets may have to be reassessed will do little to improve sentiment. It will not only hit earnings but also reminds investors of how badly timed and priced the multibillion-rand acquisition of David Jones was. Despite the poor performance that has dogged the group for more than a year, the market still seems to have faith in its management. Few investors expect an improvement in the short term, but surprising numbers are confident of a medium-term pick-up. Mind you, some analysts expect continued deterioration into the medium term. Under the ANC leadership of Cyril Ramaphosa, who is making much of an anticorruption platform, the hopes of the country lie in a quick departure of President Jacob Zuma, who has been a highly tainted individual, bringing in corrupt and ineffectual people around him. The country has been set back by Zuma’s self-serving leadership and those around him kowtowing to their political master and the Gupta family, which is close to Zuma and has had undue influence in the running of the government, ministerial appointments and in stateowned enterprises. Some ministries have been laughably bad under Zuma’s appointees, but one stands out. Mosebenzi Zwane, an unknown politician from the Free State who is close to the Guptas and had been plucked from obscurity, was the surprise appointment to the role of mineral resources minister in late 2015. Since his arrival, many in the industry talk of relationships with the office of the minister and his department sinking to new lows, with deep levels of distrust and a heightened sense of insecurity when it comes to regulations and the way they are implemented. With Ramaphosa’s background as a founding member and influential leader of the National Union of Mineworkers and as a business owner with interests that include mining companies, he is likely to have a considered and pragmatic approach to the mining sector. It simply cannot entail leaving Zwane in office overseeing such an important sector that has missed a huge commodity price boom and looks set to do so again. iNet Bridge