JOHANNESBURG - The new year brings with it promise for the future and resolutions to change for the better. According to TIME Magazine, there are 10 promises people make to themselves and break in the new year. 1. Exercise One of the most common resolutions is to lose the weight of festive indulgence fed by holiday parties and meals and get fit through exercise. Fitness clubs offer beginning-of-the-year promotions for people looking to work out. Only 31 percent of South Africa's gym members exercise weekly and don't visit the gym enough to truly reap the benefits. 2. Quit smoking Smoking is a lifestyle habit that negatively affects the health of the smoker and around those who indulge. According to the Western Cape government, more than 43,000 people die every year from diseases directly and indirectly related to tobacco smoke. “Cold turkey” has been proven to be the most successful method of quitting. It is unfortunately also the most difficult. Most smokers can’t cope with going  “cold turkey” and will follow whatever method they feel comfortable with. Giving up smoking is one of the most difficult challenges to overcome. Contact the National Council Against Smoking QUIT Line: 011-720 3145 3. Learn something new Learning a new skill or language is more of a commitment than many people realise. According to the US Foreign Service Institute, it takes between 480 and 720 hours to achieve basic fluency in a new language. Building new habits takes at least 21 days for the most basic additions to your routine. Make sure your resolution is achievable and you have sufficient motivation to follow through on your goals. 4. Eat healthier and diet While eating healthily is an admirable goal for the new year it's not as simple as it seems. Unhealthy habits are easy to fall back into. "Unhealthy processed foods and fast foods are cheaper. People don’t know that these are unhealthy and if they did know, they might not be able to do much about it because of the expense of cooking a healthy diet," David Sanders of the University of the Western Cape's School of Public Health says. 5. Follow a budget and save money After a particularly tough economic year of increasing fuel costs, increasing energy costs and the increase in general costs of living a  commitment to a budget is a good decision.  “If you haven’t looked at your budget for a while then now is definitely the time,” comments Susan Steward, marketing manager of Budget Insurance. “Changes in both the economy and your personal life affect your budget, which is why it should be revisited on a regular basis.” 6. Reconnect with family Everyone's busy these days and bringing the family together is an important priority. The beginning of the year is an ideal time to call family that you haven't seen in a while. 7. Travel Travel is a large investment of time and money. Travel is on many people's agendas but it should be planned well to suit your schedule and budget. 8. Be less stressed Reducing stressful situations and acquiring positive habits to deal with stress is not a bad idea.  Psychological factors like depression and anxiety can affect the neural, endocrine and immune systems. Anyone who feels depressed or anxious or unable to cope is encouraged to call the Sadag helpline on 0800 567 567.Trained counsellors are on standby to give advice and encouragement.   9. Volunteer The impulse to give back through volunteerism is noble, especially if you continue with it through the year. There are many volunteer organisations that need assistance but if you don't think you'll be able to donate your time, consider contributing in another way. 10. Drink less alcohol After the morning of 1 January it's not surprising you probably wish you drank less. South Africans consume in excess of 5 billion litres of alcohol annually; this figure is likely to be higher still if sorghum beer is included, and equates to 9 to 10 litres of pure alcohol per person. Excessive drinking is a cause of many health issues as well as leading to risk-taking behaviour. The commitment to drink less is a resolution that many would do well to follow. eNCA