LOS ANGELES - Reality television star Kim Kardashian West has been accused of cultural appropriation after she flaunted her new grey braids hairstyle on her social media accounts. Kim K (37) called her new hairdo the 'Bo Derek braids' which she said were inspired by the American actress Bo Derek when she had a similar hairstyle in 1979. Kardashian, who's just become a mother for the third time through surrogacy, had been posting semi-nude pictures of herself. Singer Lindsay Lohan commented on her post, saying she was confused, which Kardashian West met with a knee-jerk response accusing Lohan of having a fake foreign accent. Nobody even called cornrows ‘Fulani braids’ until Kim K decided to say she has ‘Bo Derek’ braids. She said that simply because Bo Derek was her inspiration for her braided, hair style choice. pic.twitter.com/UVVTwgekx0 People aren't mad at Kim K for no reason. She should not have credited Bo Derek for that look because Bo Derek shouldn't have been famous for that look in the first place lmao quick maths. Kim Kardashian’s hair. Sigh. I think Fulani braids are so beautiful and in principle not against anyone trying out new styles but she seriously tests with her Bo Derek rubbish and she must know that her style choices are going to be ripped off by white women everywhere I'm not tryna rain on the outrage parade but we know and I'm sure even Kim knows they are not Bo Derek braids... For kim, and a lot of white people, those are bo derek braids. Just like Debbie Harry was the first rapper. Whites will always associate the first time a thing was on THEIR radar as that thing's invention. I honestly can't be bothered anymore. Kim Kardashian really said “Bo Derek braids” knowing damn well what she was doing pic.twitter.com/zuBeNCLh6k Obviously she didn’t learn from Bo Derek. Besides, her hair will be down in a day or so bc it can’t handle it...she has to wash her hair everyday. We don’t purposely. Kim, you married black. Stop trying to be black. Calling Fulani braids “Bo Derek” Braids is a major eye roll. Kim is paying homage to another celebrity who appropriated black culture in the 70s, which is not giving credit where it’s due. History REPEATS itself. It’s actually ironic eNCA