JOHANNESBURG - Hoerskool Overvaal in Vereeniging is closed today as a march against alleged racism at the school takes place. Teachers' union Sadtu and its parent federation, Cosatu, organised the protest after the Afrikaans-medium school refused to accept 55-English speaking pupils. #HoërskoolOvervaal Demonstrations continue outside the main gate to the school where picketers continue their protest. Among those here are pupils, teachers, parents and more. pic.twitter.com/Y1i4ZcB1M7 Scholars have joined in. #HoërskoolOvervaal A group of pupils arrive and join Sadtu members and others demonstrating outside the school over its admission policy. The group could number over 200 now. pic.twitter.com/GBn42BkJUn #HoërskoolOvervaal [PARAPHRASED] Bones Modisane from the @ANCYLhq in Gauteng says we don’t have a problem with the white Afrikaans community and we don’t have a problem with Afrikaans, we have a problem with Afrikaans being used as a technicality to exclude black pupils READ: Angry parents threaten to burn Hoërskool Overvaal The protesters gathered earlier at a nearby petrol station and marched to the school, singing. #HoërskoolOvervaal Over one hundred demonstrators in Sadtu, Cosatu, ANC and SACP shirts are proceeding along Old Johannesburg Road in Vereeniging. “We are going to change things. Don’t cry my child,” they sing. pic.twitter.com/fsIOgRGWoT #HoërskoolOvervaal Despite calls from Minister of Basic Education Angie Motshelga to approach district offices or the department directly with their grievances, picketers are gathering at a petrol garage with a plan to march to the school later this morning. — Erin Bates (@ermbates) January 25, 2018 The Gauteng Education Department and the school have been embroiled in court battles over the matter. The North Gauteng High Court ruled last week that the school has no capacity for the pupils, prompting violent protests outside its gates. A vehicle was petrol-bombed and police fired rubber bullets to disperse the protesters, while pupils watched from classrooms. More than 40 people have been arrested for public violence. On Monday, Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga called for an end to the protests, saying they were violating pupils' right to education. eNCA