DAVOS, Switzerland - Washington's main concern about the rise of cryptocurrencies is to make sure that they are not used for illicit activity, US Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said on Thursday. "My number-one focus on cryptocurrency is that we want to make sure it's not used for illicit activity," he told the World Economic Forum (WEF) in Davos, Switzerland. Larry Fink, chief executive of BlackRock Inc, the world's biggest asset manager, told the forum that cryptocurrencies posed a systemic threat that needed to be dealt with globally. He said they might be something he considered investing in but the cryptocurrency industry was "more an index of money laundering". READ: SARS could soon tax your Bitcoin revenue At the same time, Britain's Prime Minister Theresa May said her country should take a serious look at cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin because of the way they can be used by criminals. "Cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin, we should be looking at these very seriously, precisely because of the way that they can be used, particularly by criminals," May told Bloomberg Television in an interview in Davos on Thursday. She added that there were huge possibilities for Britain to attract tech companies once Britain leaves the European Union. Britain wants to clinch a deal with the EU by the end of March on a Brexit transition period, Brexit minister David Davis said on Wednesday. Britain says a transition period should provide clarity for business and financial services firms. READ: Ramaphosa to meet UK's May at Davos May said that she sensed a pragmatic attitude among EU leaders to get an arrangement which works for Britain and the EU, but would not be drawn as to whether she would offer concessions to the EU to secure a favourable deal for the finance industry. "What I'm working for is looking at the implementation period... But I'm very clear that we want to develop a deep and special partnership - a comprehensive free trade agreement," she said. "Obviously we recognise the importance of financial services and we want to ensure that we can continue to see those financial services ensuring that the City of London retains its role as a global financial centre." Reuters