PIETERMARITZBURG – SuperSport United ended a nightmare run of eight league matches without a win when they edged out Maritzburg United at the Harry Gwala Stadium on Wednesday night. The only goal of a tight game was scored 12 minutes from time by Aubrey Modiba. Shout out to Clayton Daniels for winning the man of the match award #AbsaPrem pic.twitter.com/qNaeeckBWt The first half was characterised by some outstanding disciplined defending from the visiting side which meant that Maritzburg struggled to create openings on goal. Their only chance of the first stanza came on the half-hour mark when after a neat move, Deolin Mekoa cut in from the left-hand side and fired narrowly over the bar from 16-yards out. Eric Tinkler's team though looked the more threatening side, but they also didn't have too many chances apart from a Thabo Mnyamane cross which was tipped over the bar in the sixth minute by home keeper Richard Ofori, who also did well to recover a miscued clearance from Siyanda Xulu. READ: Maritzburg snatch 2-1 win over Ajax Matsatsantsa's best opportunity came moments before the break when Thuso Phala played in Modiba with a delightful pass, but the club's top goal-scorer pulled his finish wide. The KZN side looked more up for it after the restart and were able to make more inroads into the SuperSport half, a chance materialising on the hour mark when Siphesihle Ndlovu cleverly threaded in Mekoa after a flowing move, but SuperSport midfielder Sipho Mbule did superbly to make a block on the shot. There was another good chance for the Team of Choice in the 75th minute when Evans Rusike got on the end of a back-post header, but visiting keeper Reyaad Pieterse made a diving save to keep it out. HT Score: Marizburg United 0-0 SuperSport United#AbsaPrem #SkeemaMatsatsantsa #RefuellingGreatness But the deadlock was broken at the other end two minutes later when Kingston Nkhatha rose well to flick on a cross to Modiba, who showed excellent composure to take a touch before burying the ball. Maritzburg were close to equalising five minutes from time when Yazid Atouba's shot struck Morgan Gould on the arm in the SuperSport box, no penalty was given before Fortune Makaringe shanked an effort wide. Matsatsantsa had to withstand some more late pressure but held on to record their first league victory since they beat Ajax Cape Town on November 29. African News Agency