LONDON - Manchester United boss Jose Mourinho's problems may be taken up by Manchester City's bigger spending power but they pale into insignificance compared to those of his opposite number in Friday's FA Cup fourth round clash. United -- who may give Alexis Sanchez his debut after his lucrative move from Arsenal on Monday -- travel to the unglamorous surroundings of third-tier Yeovil whose manager Darren Way is fortunate to even be in the dugout. Manchester United ☑️
		Real Madrid ☑️@Ryandickson23 has been involved in big games before and feels the town is buzzing. Watch in full -- https://t.co/ePlRJNv1d9 #YTFC pic.twitter.com/nQXGRES8r3 The 38-year-old suffered horrific injuries when he was a passenger in a van involved in a collision in 2008 and he told the BBC he considered himself lucky to have survived. "I feel very fortunate to be alive today," said Way. You said you've joined "the biggest club in the world" @Alexis_Sanchez so it's only right you start your #MUFC career in the biggest away dressing room in @SkyBetLeagueTwo*.
		
		*maybe -- #YTFC #Alexis7 pic.twitter.com/BVFt0A06Xk "I've had 28 operations on my injuries and I'm due to have more. I've got another one coming up after the Manchester United game." Unsurprisingly Way's playing career ended after the crash -- he was confined to a wheelchair for a while -- as among his many injuries he broke and dislocated his left hip and also a broken femur. "I battled against the odds just to walk again," said Way. "To be confined to a wheelchair and not being able to walk is not nice. To only having access to one arm is not nice." READ: Sanchez 'thrilled' to join Manchester United Way -- who is Yeovil through and through having had three spells with them in midfield -- hopes those dark days will be brightened up considerably by claiming the scalp of United and recording one of the greatest ever giantkilling performances. "Sometimes people don't dream big enough," said Way, whose side are hovering over the relegation places and at risk of dropping out of the league. "We have worked extremely hard against all odds to get this opportunity. What I don't want my players to do is waste it. "If we get a result this will be the biggest story ever in Yeovil's history." AFP