JOHANNESBURG – African National Congress (ANC) President Cyril Ramaphosa has urged the party to start a fight against the plight of corruption. Ramaphosa delivered on Saturday his maiden January 8th statement in East London. Waging the fight against corruption Ramaphosa also expressed concerns at the way in which corruption is being treated with in the private sector. Ramaphosa also expressed concerns at the way in which corruption is being treated with in the private sector “In the private sector, they decorate it. They call it collusion, financial irregularities and all those things. It's the same thing, it is corruption and we want that to come to an end as well,” Ramaphosa said. He said strong and efficient law enforcement agencies are critical to the fight against corruption and crime generally. He said this would result in the restoration of integrity and legitimacy of the state. Among other things, Ramaphosa addressed the concentration of ownership in the country’s economy and how the party intends to address the issue. “In order to reduce concentration of ownership and control in the economy and to open the market to new black-owned companies, we have agreed to expand the mandate of the competition authorities.” READ: Ramaphosa plays it safe, avoids Zuma exit He said that state procurement and the award of concessions are going to be used more effectively to promote broad based economic empowerment and encourage greater worker ownership and board representation. He also touched on the economy and the growth strategy going forward. “South Africa needs to pursue a multi-faceted growth strategy.” Among the efforts to promote job creation on a far larger scale we need to re-vitalise our manufacturing sector through a number of measures, including preferential procurement in both public and private sectors, to stimulate demand for local goods and to reduce domestic manufacturing costs.” He said the country needs to learn from the experiences of emerging market peers and focus its industrialisation strategy on sectors with great potential for growth. On land - expropriation without compensation will be implemented sustainably, he said. He said a comprehensive approach was needed to land reform and it is going to be the party’s important task this year. READ: Ramaphosa calls for unity as rift over Zuma widens “The NEC will develop proposals on how this resolution of expropriation of land will be implemented, taking into account all the things that are important, such as the growth of our economy, agricultural production as well as food security.” These are the central tasks that must occupy all ANC structures," he said. eNCA