Editor's note: This live stream has ended. You may watch the recording above. PRETORIA – The 55 school pupils who want to be admitted to a school which only accommodates Afrikaans-speaking pupils will not be allowed to attend and be taught in English, the North Gauteng High Court has ruled. Hoërskool Overvaal in Vereeniging and the Gauteng education department were embroiled in a court battle on Thursday and Friday, with the school insisting it cannot admit the pupils because it lacks capacity and resources. The school also argues that the department cannot simply give it instructions and enforce something which is against the school’s policy. READ: We call the shots when it comes to school admissions: GDE The school’s advocate Albert Lamey further argued in the North Gauteng High Court that the school is not able to offer dual-medium instruction, and said the department had failed in determining the capacity of the school before making a decision on placing the 55 pupils. “That is apart from language policy. It is of grave concern that procedures have been managed in this fashion… No wonder it’s chaos, placing learners and then the problem is thrown to the governing body,” he told the court. Lamey said there had been a sharp increase in the number of pupils of all races who wanted to learn Afrikaans at the school. Advocate Kumbirai Toma, who represents the department, dismissed the school’s arguments. He maintains the school does have the capacity to accommodate the pupils because it had previously admitted 20 more Afrikaans-speaking pupils, even after the department had instructed it on December 5 to reserve space for the 55 English-speaking pupils. READ: 30,000 pupils yet to be placed in Gauteng: Dept “If capacity was a problem, the school would not have space for these 20 learners.” The school has 23 classrooms, but only 17 are used for lessons, while the others have been converted into specialised centres without the department’s authority. The school had approval to convert only two classrooms. “In an essence, capacity is not an issue. There are five classrooms that can be used to teach learners in English,” Toma said. He also argued that the demographics of the community had changed and it would make sense for the school to adapt to societal change. “The admission criteria says learners who live in a 5km radius from the school and wish to be admitted, they can do so despite the school’s language policy.” The school should also not be bothered about how the pupils would be taught because that was the department’s concern, he said. The school approached the court to review and set aside the department’s instruction to admit the 55 pupils. Judge Bill Prinsloo indicated on Friday that due to lack of time he would only be able to hand down judgment at 2pm on Monday. The Gauteng education MEC Panyaza Lesufi said he's not confident the department will win its court challenge. “To be quite frank I am not hopeful. It pains me that we will have people who will support segregation using our progressive laws to justify segregation. It pains me for people to argue that there should be schools that are no-go areas for children in this country in this time and era.” African News Agency