JOHANNESBURG -Bringing to life on stage the major musical hits that made The Beatles one of the most successful and influential rock groups of all time, international hit tribute and stage show Beatlemania On Tour is set to take over Johannesburg in early 2018 for a one month-long season at the Theatre of Marcellus, Emperor’s Palace Casino. Starting on Friday 19 January for two-week run, Beatlemania On Tour brings a full new cast of male singers for the shows' first tour to South Africa since 2010. Audiences can expect a fresh experience with state-of-the-art updates to production and lighting and revamps to the show’s huge repertoire of replica Beatles costuming.  The successful international stage show runs in Johannesburg until Sunday 4 February 2018. If it's pure nostalgia you're looking for, then you won't be disappointed. All of the Beatles’ biggest and most treasured hits from the 1960's rock era will be performed live on stage - in their original key and on replica Beatles instruments - with unseen attention to detail creating the sincerest Beatles sound around. The new cast includes the talented singers Cameron Charters (as Paul McCartney), Zac Coombs (as John Lennon), Brent McMullen (as George Harrison) and Ben Harper (as Ringo). Audiences can expect to see classic Beatles hits such as Can’t Buy Me Love, All My Loving, Please Please Me, I Wanna Hold Your Hand, She Loves You, Day Tripper, Nowhere Man, Help, Yellow Submarine, Sgt Pepper’s Lonely Hearts Club Band and Hey Jude performed throughout the two-hour show. The handsome foursome have gone the extra mile to make the show true to life and Johannesburg fans of The Beatles are in for a treat. Charters even taught himself to play bass left-handed for his role! “There is so much detail to get right for a show of this calibre; aside from getting the music spot-on we’re expected to nail the characters, voices, little movements. It’s a lot of work but it’s worth it when you see the end result and know that real Beatles’ fans will appreciate it,” says Charters.  With previous sold-out shows across the US, Canada, Dubai, Hong Kong, Australia and New Zealand under its belt, the production is looking to uphold its reputation as one of the world’s best Beatles tributes, and the show's producers are confident it will do just that. Beatlemania On Tour is also expected to dazzle Durban audiences at Sibaya Casino and Entertainment World from 29 March until 8 April 2018 at the Izulu Theatre. Cape Town's Artscape Theatre will host the fab four for a two-week tour in The Mother City from 31 Oct until 11 November 2018.