“Alice had her whole summer planned. Non-stop all-you-can-eat buffets while marathoning her favourite TV shows (best friends totally included) with the smallest dash of adulting -- working at the library to pay her share of the rent. The only thing missing from her perfect plan? Her girlfriend (who ended things when Alice confessed she's asexual). Alice is done with dating -- no thank you, do not pass go, stick a fork in her, done. But then Alice meets Takumi and she can’t stop thinking about him...” Let’s Talk About Love is Claire Kann's highly-anticipated debut novel. The book has garnered attention for its inclusivity on a number of different fronts. The protagonist is a black, asexual, biromantic woman and the male lead is a Japanese man. The story, thankfully, doesn’t take a shallow look at the differences in the characters’ experiences. Asexuality, or an absence of sexual attraction, can be a challenge for romance writers to tackle. READ: BOOK REVIEW: Tessa Bailey's romantic novel, 'Disorderly Conduct' Often, the motivating factor behind characters’ decisions is the overwhelming physical attraction they have to another person. When that kind of attraction is left out of the equation, the question of love and relationships is complicated further. The Asexual Visibility and Education Network explains on its website, “Communication, closeness, fun, humour, excitement and trust all happen just as much in sexual relationships as in nonsexual ones... Figuring out how to flirt, to be intimate, or to be monogamous in nonsexual relationships can be challenging, but free of sexual expectations we can form relationships in ways that are grounded in our individual needs and desires.” Let’s Talk About Love gamely articulates much of the inner dialogue of an asexual person navigating the dating world with an allosexual person. For a group of people estimated to comprise one percent the population, finding representation in literature, particularly romantic literature, that sensitively addresses its concerns is a pleasant surprise. READ: This world in words, in other worlds: Ursula K Le Guin, 1929-2018 Kann is able to integrate Alice’s sexuality into the story without treating it as a cursory plot device. While Alice’s love life is the main storyline in the book, the treatment of friends and family makes this a great novel for teenagers. The writing is simple, easily digestible, and the relationships, even outside the romance, are realistically and endearingly drawn. Let’s Talk About Love is a wonderful example of how romance can be reimagined to be progressive and inclusive of all kinds of people. eNCA