MELBOURNE, Australia – Roger Federer continued to rewrite his remarkable script with what was previously thought an unattainable 20th Grand Slam title Sunday, and he appears to have no plans to slow down any time soon. The 36-year-old Swiss marvel defied the years and attrition rate to claim a joint-record sixth Australian crown in his 30th Grand Slam decider in Melbourne on Saturday, beating Croatia's Marin Cilic in five tough sets. It put him alongside contemporary rival Novak Djokovic and Australian great Roy Emerson with the most Australian titles. Worryingly for his opponents, the ageless star is enjoying himself as much as ever, and that inevitably means he plans to stick around for some time yet. "I'm happy I'm still around, still healthy, still playing good, giving myself chances, playing the best," he said last week. "It's almost good fun." A very emotional Roger Federer lifts his #AusOpen trophy as tears fall. pic.twitter.com/FY3HatJTNM Just when many people thought his Grand Slam-winning days were behind him, having not won a major title since Wimbledon in 2012, Federer has now reeled off another three since his 35th birthday. And there appears every likelihood of more to come, particularly a ninth Wimbledon crown later this year. While he makes it look easy, it doesn't come without a tough grind behind the scenes, as Federer explained earlier in the tournament. READ: Federer: Nothing to improve for final "There's always a lot of work that goes into it during the tournament, focus, and also preparation beforehand," he said. "For many weeks and months before, you try to put yourself in the position, are you going to be ready in case a good semi-finals or quarter-finals match at the Australian Open, so forth. "This is something you sort of plan from a long time ago. That's why when it does happen, it's a great feeling." Unbelievable.
		
		Roger Federer. Sixth Australian Open title. 20-time Grand Slam champion --https://t.co/iZrq3tlwu8 pic.twitter.com/8LrWoa8JQ1 How much it means was evident with Federer in tears at the presentation ceremony on Sunday. And all of this with two sets of twins to look after with wife Mirka - Myla Rose and Charlene Riva and Leo and Lenny. A fit and healthy Federer chalking up yet another major title coincided with his long-time rivals, Rafael Nadal, Djokovic, Stan Wawrinka and Andy Murray, beginning the year with injury concerns. AFP