CAPE TOWN – Members of Parliament (MPs) are threatening to remove Transnet board members who failed to provide reasons for failing to appear before the National Assembly in December. The board appeared before Parliament’s Standing Committee on Public Accounts (Scopa), but only after being subpoenaed. Transnet chairperson Linda Mabaso said the board failed to show up because it was not prepared, but MPs are not having it. “You and other board members say, including the chair, you were unprepared. The custodian of the board says you discussed this as a board. Let me repeat, if you dismissed on the basis of dishonesty, we will lead the charge to make you a delinquent director," ANC MP Vincent Smith said. "Certain members of the Transnet family came down to Cape Town - they were with me in the plane… Who is going to foot the bill for this so-called junket that took place," the Inkatha Freedom Party’s Mkhuleko Hlengwa asked. WATCH: Gigaba on who should take responsibility for the crisis at state-owned companies Public Enterprises Minister Lynne Brown insists the state-owned enterprise is in good shape. "Transnet is one of the well-functioning companies. It has a decent financial position, it is not reliant on government for bailouts or for money and this board has actually run quite a tight ship,” the minister said. EXCLUSIVE: Brown says she's not exclusively responsible for Eskom mess Brown's statement is in direct contrast to a presentation by the Hawks in Parliament. The crime fighting body, while briefing Scopa on Tuesday, said four fraud cases were reported by Transnet, amounting to millions of rands. In a statement issued on Tuesday, Scopa said it was concerned about the expansions and deviations of Transnet’s contracts that seem to be constantly extended, which could lead to them being evergreen contracts. "Scopa is also concerned about the nature of the relationship between Transnet and National Treasury, in relation to the approval of these expansions and deviations. Scopa has agreed with National Treasury that they will brief the committee on a quarterly basis on expansions and deviations. This will allow Scopa to monitor Transnet’s contracts closely," the statement read. Scopa went on to say it had informed Transnet the entity would be liable for the costs, which amount to fruitless and wasteful expenditure, incurred by members that travelled to Cape Town on 6 December for the meeting that never happened. eNCA