NEW YORK - A Grammys skit poking fun at US President Donald Trump sparked a backlash on Twitter from Trump's eldest son and the ambassador to the United Nations. In light-hearted political commentary during the music industry's biggest award night Sunday, host James Corden introduced a video of famous names reciting from the controversial book, "Fire and Fury: Inside The Trump White House." READ: Ladysmith Black Mambazo wins fifth Grammy award Published early this month and written by Michael Wolff, the instant bestseller paints Trump as disengaged, ill-informed and unstable. The Grammy video shows musicians John Legend, Cher, Snoop Dogg, Cardi B, and DJ Khaled reading short excerpts from the book, and sometimes interjecting their own comments. @cher reading Fire and Fury for the Grammy’s was priceless! LOVES pic.twitter.com/DL0pcjenfd "I definitely wasn't there," Snoop Dogg said after reading a passage about Trump's inauguration. Cardi B quoted a line referring to Trump in bed with a cheeseburger. "I can't believe this," she said. Trump has called it a "Fake Book, written by a totally discredited author." The Grammy video ends with Hillary Clinton, the Democratic challenger who lost to Trump in the bitter 2016 election, quoting the book as saying Trump liked to eat at McDonald's. Hillaryous! @realDonaldTrump, get a sense of humour...
		BBC News - Fire and Fury over Hillary Clinton's Grammy cameo https://t.co/6dMakUbUES "The Grammy's in the bag," Clinton quips about her performance, which prompted Trump's son Donald Trump Jr to respond on Twitter: "Getting to read a #fakenews book excerpt at the Grammys seems like a great consolation prize for losing the presidency." He added that the more Clinton appears on TV "the more the American people realiSe how awesome it is to have @realDonaldTrump in office." Trump's UN ambassador, Nikki Haley, left Clinton alone but said the musicians had struck a sour note. "I have always loved the Grammys but to have artists read the Fire and Fury book killed it," she said on Twitter. "Don't ruin great music with trash. Some of us love music without the politics thrown in it." AFP