JOHANNESBURG – Interim coach of Banyana Banyana, Desiree Ellis, has named a squad of 26 players to face Sweden in two matches later this month. .@Banyana_Banyana interim coach Desiree Ellis names squad for double header with Sweden. https://t.co/1RD7IiUEFV #KickOff pic.twitter.com/kkSNIvIkns Ellis has called up the bulk of the team that played at the 2017 Cosafa Women’s Championship held in Zimbabwe in September last year, and mixed it up with several overseas-based players. These include the USA-based quartet of Kaylin Swart, Jermaine Seoposenwe, Amogelang Motau and Kelso Peskin. Kaylin Swart and Jermaine Seoposenwe back in @Banyana_Banyana squad for home matches against Sweden. https://t.co/tnITxTyFKd pic.twitter.com/1kggHNpVeh The former Banyana captain has also rewarded players that participated in the end-of-the year 2017 Sasol League National Championship that was staged in Nelspruit early in December – like Yonelo Keto (Thunderbirds), Kgaelebane Mohlakoana and Melinda Kgadiete (both Bloemfontein Celtic), Neliswa Luthuli and Sduduzo Dlamini (both Sunflower FC) Ellis has also recalled midfielder Amanda Dlamini after a long absence from the national team. Banyana will assemble for camp on Sunday, January 14. The first clash between South Africa and Sweden is a practice match, which will take place on Thursday, January 18, and will take place behind closed doors at a venue still to be announced. If SA women's football is improving, then @Banyana_Banyana had better draw with Sweden or beat them in both matches when they play in CT, this month. No losses. No excuses for Banyana. They've been playing lots of internationals the past 3 yrs and must show some good wins now The second encounter is an international friendly, and this will take place at the Cape Town Stadium on Sunday, January 21. Sweden is currently ranked 10th in the world and fifth in Europe, while South Africa is 54th in the world and fifth on the African continent. The South African Women's national team is preparing for the 2018 AFCON qualifiers and the 2019 FIFA World Cup in France.
		
		Banyana Banyana face Sweden in two matches in Cape Town on 18 Jan
		and 21 Jan with a 14h00 kickoff. #womensfootball ⚽️------ pic.twitter.com/REUQK02ujj Goalkeepers: Andile Dlamini,  Yolula Tsawe, Kaylin Swart. Defenders: Nothando Vilakazi, Noko Matlou, Janine van Wyk, Bambanani Mbane, Lebohang Ramalepe, Regina Mogolola, Zanele Nhlapo, Yonelo Keto. Midfielders: Leandra Smeda, Refiloe Jane, Amanda Dlamini, Kholosa Biyana, Kgaelebane Mohlakoana, Amogelang Motau, Rachel Sebati, Neliswa Luthuli, Nompumelelo Nyandeni. Forwards: Melinda Kgadiete, Thembi Kgatlana, Kelso Peskin, Jermaine Seoposenwe, Chantelle Esau, Sduduzo Dlamini. African News Agency