CAPE TOWN - SA Rugby’s new Director of Rugby, Rassie Erasmus, and other personnel in the Rugby Department, including Jacques Nienaber and Mzwandile Stick, have completed their latest BokSmart certification as preparations for the 2018 season reaches full swing. The BokSmart rugby safety course equips coaches and referees with the knowledge and skills to apply safe rugby techniques and basic medical and injury prevention practices. The course is compulsory for anybody who wants to coach or referee rugby in South Africa at any level. READ: Coetzee’s fate to be sealed as changes loom The course features everything from rugby safety-related laws, concussion identification, treatment and management, on establishing functional emergency action plans, technical preparation, safer contact techniques especially for tacklers and ball carriers, and a renewed focus on prevention, identification and management of serious head, neck and spinal injuries. Erasmus, Nienaber, Stick and other SA Rugby staff members attended the course, which was facilitated by SA Rugby’s Senior Manager for Rugby Safety, Dr Wayne Viljoen, in Cape Town. SA Rugby Director of Rugby Rassie Erasmus and Rugby Department staff renew BokSmart certification. Read here: https://t.co/7kXHKESOly @BokSmart pic.twitter.com/xTYejno1FW “The BokSmart rugby safety course is a necessity for anyone involved in the game as it empowers and educates individuals to make the correct decisions to protect our assets – the players,” said Erasmus. “The content provided in the course is thorough and is based on years of research, and it is fantastic that everyone who plays a role on the field in the country is exposed to this kind of information, so that we can limit the number and damage caused by unnecessary injuries.” READ: Coaching changes for Blitzboks, Springbok Women’s Sevens Dr Viljoen was pleased with the input offered in the session and said: “It is really encouraging that the people who work closely with the top players, and coaches at these levels of the game are leading by example in attending the BokSmart course. “It was particularly pleasing to see how enthusiastic they were to participate in the discussions and offer their insights, and it is fantastic that they are so supportive of the course, the content and the interventions. This will certainly assist in ensuring that rugby safety remains one of SA Rugby’s top priorities on and off the field at all levels of the game.” African News Agency