SPONSORED: Auctions can be imagined as something from the movies, often set where the rich are glamorously dressed, casually waving their numbers to bid for their desired artwork. The person with the deepest pockets in the room walks away with the artwork that costs millions. However, if you’re a classical car collector, CarZar has a plan that’s just right, if buyers are familiar with the popular classic car auctions like the Sotheby’s, Mecums, and Barrett-Jacksons of the world. They advise that potential big spenders on the following: It’s slightly different with fleet cars for example, the auctioneer is far from opulent, and he stands on a chair or an industrial ladder so that the crowd gets a full view of the super-salesman. He leads the sale with a very loud, quick-paced voice which distinctly displays sarcastic undertones. He puts on a show, and the show is meant to impress and bedazzle customers into buying cars from his auction floor. It’s important to note how cars make it onto auction floors. Firstly these are either stolen or recovered cars, repossessed, accident damaged and lastly cars that dealerships were not able to sell. Against these odds, consumers still expect to find bargains at auctions, where they are pressured because they’re bidding against other customers for the same car, and sometimes against ghost bidders, who just drive the price up to where the auctioneer wants it to be. For any wise and aspirant buyer, there are synonymous red flags here. The terms and conditions of participating in the bid can be confusing. Bids at auctions exclude VAT, but the auctioneer will start off the bid with the car’s book value which does include VAT. In the small print of the bidding card, there is a clause that entitles the auctioneer to an administrative fee, which can prove to be substantial, which means that a buyer can settle on a cost only to discover additional costs long after the auction ended. CarZar supports customers who prefer buying from auctions, they advise clients to perhaps try out their Car Affordability Calculator before heading out to buy a car on auction. Once you’ve marked that off your list of auction preparations, do some research on the current market value. They stipulate that their unique algorithm generates an online value based on market trends and previous transaction histories. However, due to the constant fluctuation of vehicle pricing within the automotive market, these values are only valid for 7-days. Trading in a vehicle for a new one or a better model could potentially mean that a consumer would have to sell 10 to 15 percent cheaper than when selling it privately. The benefit is that most dealerships will accept your vehicle as is, with the plan that they can easily sell it off to other dealerships, probably at a price higher that what the seller was paid. It can be frustrating to try and navigate the car sales industry, the hassle doesn’t have to be bore by the buyer. CarZar promises to get you more for your car. Although a seller can get more from selling privately, there are also risks that come with that. The seller will have to put their contact information onto a public domain, if selling online, schedule phone calls for viewings and test drives with complete strangers. The seller runs the risk of putting their life in danger, being hijacked or being scammed out of the car, the money or both. More importantly, sellers have to be knowledgeable about cars, be in a position to give impressive Intel on the car’s specs and performance, give detailed service history and to divulge the car’s accident reports. Acquiring roadworthy documents as well as change of ownership costs can mount in the quest of selling a vehicle independently. If you’re considering selling your car, here’s why CarZar is safer and a convenient option: STEP 1: Get an Estimated Online Offer
		Start by selecting your correct car details from the available list online. Accurate details will allow our unique algorithm to calculate an estimated offer at your inspection. STEP 2: Book an Appointment
		Make it happen! Schedule your appointment at one of our DEKRA or KwikFit partner locations, and receive an independent, transparent inspection from a certified third-party assessor. Alternatively, we can send one of our professional inspectors directly to you! STEP 3: Select an Option
		At the end of your vehicle inspection, you can decide between: Option 1: Instant Cash - CarZar will make an instant cash offer. OR Option 2: More for your Car - looking for a higher price? Let us advertise your car to our nationwide network of dealers for 48-hours. STEP 4: Immediate Payment
		If you accept our cash offer or highest offer, and provide the necessary documents, we’ll make an instant payment into your account and take care of all the admin for you. Our services are 100% obligation-free, so you have nothing to lose!