BERLIN - German software giant SAP on Tuesday set targets for higher sales, revenue and margins in 2018, after its soaring cloud computing business helped meet its objectives for last year. The group reported a 12-percent increase in net profit to 4.0 billion euros ($5.0 billion) in 2017. Revenues fell within the range forecast by SAP in October, with a six-percent rise to 23.5 billion euros, while operating, or underlying profit fell five percent to 4.9 billion. Continuing a trend seen in recent years, revenues from cloud computing services grew by 26 percent, outpacing the classic software business, which added just two percent. In recent years, SAP has bet strongly on selling subscriptions to cloud computing services, which allow customers to manage data stored with SAP online, shifting away from its historic model of selling companies a one-off license to use its software on their own computers. READ: Mars-bound Marais appointed SAP Head of Innovation "SAP's future is rock solid," chief executive Bill McDermott said in a statement, underlining growth in both cloud computing and software sales. In the fourth quarter alone, the firm based in the southwestern town of Walldorf saw revenue grow one percent to 6.8 billion euros, while operating profit also rose by one percent to 2.0 billion euros. Offering its forecasts for 2018 under non-IFRS accounting standards -- which exclude certain costs -- SAP said it would increase cloud revenues to 5.0 billion euros from 3.8 billion euros last year. Overall turnover should grow from 23.5 billion euros to 25 billion euros, and operating profit could rise as high as 7.5 billion euros after hitting 6.8 billion in 2017. Separately, SAP announced plans to take over US sales and marketing software firm, Callidus Software, for some $2.4 billion (2.0 billion euros). Investors in the Californian company must still approve the deal, which offers them $36 per share or a 21-percent premium over the average market price over the past month. If shareholders agree and competition authorities give the green light, Callidus could be making a "positive contribution" to SAP's bottom line by 2019, the group said. AFP