CAPE TOWN - Cape Town City moved to second place on the league table after beating 10-man Ajax Cape Town 1-0 in an Absa Premiership match played at the Cape Town International Stadium on Saturday afternoon. City had to wait until the 52nd minute until they were able to open the scoring, when Ayanda Patosi sent in a cross from a short corner, and some poor marking allowed Craig Martin to head home with ease, to take his season goal tally to two goals. Ajax were reduced to 10 men in the 44th minute, when their Zimbabwean defensive midfielder John Takwara received his second yellow card caution within two minutes, and this further hampered the red-and-white-clad team's plans, on a day when they seemed more content to catch City on the counter attack rather than taking the game to the hosts. READ: Questions being asked about Soweto Derby continuing despite deaths The match, which started 15 minutes late due to ticket-related issues, was a fiery affair on all fronts with City coach Benni Mccarthy sent from the bench area in the latter stage of the match after a vociferous encounter with the match officials. City dominated the first 45 minutes and should have been two or three goals to the good by the halftime break. In the 13th minute, veteran midfielder Teko Modise produced a superb pass across to the right to unleash the speedy Martin, who worked his shot around Ajax goalkeeper Brandon Petersen, but the upright kept the ball out of the Urban Warriors' goalmouth. Ajax's best effort to find the City net came in the 42nd minute, when former Orlando Pirates goal-getter Tendai Ndoro held the ball up well for defender Sergio Kammies, whose shot missed the target. Taariq Fielies was a tower of strength at the back for City on a day in which their goalkeeper Sage Stephens had precious little danger balls to content with. Now on 30 points from 18 games, City will travel to the Free State for their next encounter, against Bloemfontein Celtic next Sunday. Ajax, who remain on 16 points from 18 games, will host high-riding Free State Stars in their next league outing on Friday. African News Agency