JOHANNESBURG - New Kaizer Chiefs signing Siphelele Ntshangase says he is "living the dream" after his move from Baroka and his debut last weekend against Polokwane City. “I knew that the pressure of playing for Chiefs is immense but I am ready to handle it. It might not always be smooth sailing but I am ready for the challenge.” “I’ve always wanted to play for Chiefs,” reiterates the 24-year-old midfielder who has for long made clear his wish to play for the Glamour Boys.  “I want to show to the supporters that I am the right player. I am aware they wanted the club to sign me. I am thankful to get this opportunity. “The coach told me before the match to be ready,” reveals Ntshangase. “Honestly, I didn’t expect to play so early after my arrival at Chiefs.” READ: Chiefs sign midfielder Siphelele Ntshangase His first touch of the ball came as a result of a throw-in from Joseph Molangoane. “For a split second I was lost in the magnitude of the moment,” Ntshangase reflects. “That’s when I remembered what Siphiwe Tshabalala had advised me earlier, ‘keep it simple’. I did what he had suggested and it worked out great. “From there on, my confidence grew with each touch of the ball,” continues Ntshangase whose one-two pass led to Molongoane’s cross for Dumsani Zuma to volley in the winning goal for Amakhosi. READ: Chiefs hold on to beat Polokwane “I’m happy to have to the win. I’m part of a team of very talented players – in the end it has to be about the collective and not the individual.” Ntshangase gave Amakhosi supporters a scare when he was seen limping off the pitch after the referee blew his whistle for the final time.  “I was not injured,” he comments. “It was just the result of a minor collision. I am fine and already in full swing preparing for the next game.” Coincidentally, Chiefs are going to face Ntshangase’s former side Baroka on Sunday. “They will want to perform against us,” the midfielder says. “It is common knowledge that, as is the case with most teams, they will want to prove a point and cause an upset. Credit to Baroka, they’ve done well this season. “Only one point separates us on the Premiership log. If we want to remain in contention for the league championship, we will need to go into this clash with determination to bring home three points.” - African News Agency