JOHANNESBURG - The Democratic Alliance (DA) is facing turbulent political times, with Cape Town mayor Patricia de Lille openly defying its bid to charge her, while in Gauteng claims of nepotism and misconduct are made. READ: DA report on De Lille paints a picture of a power-hungry bully The party is due to hold its national conference in Tshwane in April, seemingly more divided than ever. It’s been three years since Mmusi Maimane was elected DA leader, taking over from Helen Zille. The party has grown in leaps and bounds electorally, winning three metros from the ANC to form coalition governments. But this growth has come with its challenges. Factional politics appears to be rearing its head. During the Gauteng provincial conference last year Maimane admitted that the run-up had been difficult and blighted by smear campaigns. “This congress has been hard, it’s been fought on many fronts, but there can only be one winner today and that winner must be the DA. Whomever you vote for will lead us with, those values taking South Africa forward," Maimane said at the time. WATCH: DA Gauteng elects new leadership A few months later, the DA leader is having to deal with claims by De Lille that some party leaders want her removed to suit their own agendas. The party has suspended her from party work and charged her with bringing it into disrepute. Maimane, who’s seeking re-election, still insists he won’t join any faction. Tshwane mayor and former Da chairman in Gauteng Solly Msimanga is being touted by some structures as a contender for federal chairperson. The position is currently held by the mayor of Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality, Athol Trollip, is seen as a staunch ally of Maimane. eNCA senior researcher Angelo Fick says it was just a matter of time before factionalism in the party started playing itself out. “The biggest challenge facing Maimane is to stamp his authority within the DA and move it away from the Helen Zille era going into the 2019 elections. Helen Zille was able to stamp her authority and move the party away from the Tony Leon era, but Mmusi is facing that challenge at the moment and also he has to have a parliamentary list that is representative of the country’s racial dynamics," says Fick. The DA heads for the conference with a so-called black caucus wanting more racial representation in the top leadership of the party. Gauteng and Kwa-Zulu Natal are seemingly the driving forces and want Msimanga as federal chairperson. eNCA