SPAIN – Fernando Torres scored a rare la Liga goal as Atletico Madrid made light of Diego Costa's absence to consolidate second place in Spain with a 3-0 win over lowly Las Palmas on Sunday. Torres finished a lightning 73rd-minute counter-attack with a vintage shot into the roof of the net to double his side's lead and help move them up to 46 points, six ahead of third-place Valencia after their 4-1 home defeat by Real Madrid on Saturday. With Costa injured Atletico took a while to get going and had to wait until the 61st minute to open the scoring, Antoine Griezmann latching on to Juanfran's fine ball down the right flank before dinking neatly over Las Palmas stopper Leandro Chichizola. "The first half was not very good but the coach gave us a good talking to at half-time, and we responded well," said Griezmann, who also hit the post twice and started the move that led to Torres' goal, the 600th scored by Atletico in all competitions during Diego Simeone's seven-year reign as coach. The Frenchman intercepted a loose pass and set Angel Correa free to scamper down the pitch and feed Torres, who shifted the ball onto his right foot and lashed home the goal that sealed the three points. READ: Torres lifts Atletico above beaten Valencia An easy tap-in from Thomas Partey after great work from Yannick Carrasco two minutes from time completed the second-half rout of a desperate Las Palmas, who remain second from bottom and five points from safety. "In the end, we had lots of opportunities and we scored three goals," added Griezmann, whose goal was just his seventh in the league this season but his fourth in league and cup since the turn of the year. "I feel good, I've started the year well and I hope to continue the goals and assists. "We still have two competitions to play for this season (La Liga and the Europa League) and we will give everything in them both. Let's see how far we are able to go." Sunday's win means that Atletico also closed the gap between themselves and Barcelona to eight points ahead of the runaway league leaders' home clash later with Alaves, who are hovering one place above the relegation zone. Later on Sunday Vincenzo Montella will be looking to take sixth-placed Sevilla to within three points of Real Madrid when they host mid-table Getafe. AFP