JOHANNESBURG - Former acting Eskom CEO, Matshela Koko, may stay at the power utility for as long as he likes, unless the board presents new charges. Koko’s lawyers have written to the board, saying it has no right to remove him, as he's been cleared of any wrongdoing. Koko is defying calls for him to step down. The government has ordered the new Eskom boar to get rid of the executives linked to corruption at the state-owned utility including Matshela Koko. WATCH: Koko testifies at Eskom inquiry Finance Minister, Malusi Gigaba, also called for Koko to do the right thing, and resign. But this was not to be. Koko is now digging in his heels. His lawyers have asked the Eskom board to respect his rights. Corruption Watch is not impressed by Koko’s defiance. "This is a little ridiculous. Clearly this person has no shame. He has lost the confidence of the shareholder which is the government. There should be prosecution of Koko. I think the prosecution authority should prosecute him and the board must fire him and deal with the consequences,” says David Lewis, Corruption Watch. One labour law expert says it's not that easy. “If the employee feels that ya its perhaps time to go they can of course voluntarily resign …. However where an employee wishes to resist those overtures he is fully entitled to do so and keep the employer to the terms of the contract, allow me to work. Allow me to get on with my job please,” says JD Verster, Labour Law Expert Verster says Koko can stay as long as he wants unless the Eskom board, his employer, files new charges. READ: Eskom rubbishes claims Koko is negotiating an exit A disciplinary inquiry cleared Koko, although the hearing was reportedly a sham. He was charged after his department awarded contracts worth R640-million to a company in which his step-daughter owns shares. “Where there are genuine circumstances which be objectively proven to have caused that inquiry to be a sham, an inquiry which was clearly not aimed at achieving it legitimate objective and it was held irregularly, totally inappropriately an employer may have an argument to say justice has not been served,” says Verster. Whilst the executive has the authority to remove a director from any state-owned entity, it cannot directly dismiss employees. It appears Koko's job is safe for as long as he wants it. eNCA