LONDON - Brexit minister David Davis said on Wednesday that he expects Britain and the European Union will agree to a transition deal on exiting the bloc by the end of March. But he was forced to defend a deal that leaves little changed, rejecting criticism that Britain will continue to be a "vassal state". Speaking to a parliamentary committee, Davis said Britain's relationship with the EU would "look exactly the same" during what Britain hopes to be a two-year period to allow customs, businesses and politicians prepare for Brexit. But his description of a status quo transition, which he, like the EU, expects to be agreed by the end of March, raised concerns among Brexit campaigners, underlining the deep divisions in not only the governing Conservatives but across the country. READ: UK unemployment at its lowest in decades Fellow Conservative pro-Brexit lawmaker Jacob Rees-Mogg accused Davis of allowing Britain to become a vassal state during the transition period, saying it would leave in name only and would continue to pay into the bloc and adhere to its laws. "No, we're not," Davis answered. "We are transitioning from one state to another... you can call it what you like, but not vassal." Prime Minister Theresa May has struggled to keep the warring factions of her party, including her top team of ministers, united as she negotiates the end of more than 40 years of union with the bloc. Those divisions were aired in public on Tuesday when foreign minister Boris Johnson demanded the government pay 100 million pounds (R1.6-billion) a week more to the public health service to show the voting public what the benefits of Brexit could be. READ: Britain, France to strike new border deal on migrants Instead, he was slapped down by May but won support in a Conservative Party which is losing members at a time when opposition Labour is enjoying record levels of support. For Brexit supporters such as Rees-Mogg, the continued jurisdiction of the European Court of Justice after Brexit day on March 29, 2019, is a betrayal of a campaign promise to voters to "take back control". But Davis said they would only have to swallow such close relations for a little while longer and should instead focus on what ties Britain would have with the EU in the future. "I am relaxed about transition because my primary concern is about the future relationship," he said. "That's what matters, that's what people will think about and judge us on in 10, 20 30 years' time," he said. Reuters