CAPE TOWN - Kagiso Rabada has become the number-one ranked bowler in the ICC Test Player Rankings after helping South Africa to an exciting 72 run victory over India in the first Test at Newlands on Monday. Rabada, who was one of the stars in South Africa’s successful campaign in the ICC U19 Cricket World Cup in the UAE in 2014, returned figures of three for 34 and two for 41 against a star-studded India batting line-up. For this effort, the 22-year-old has collected five points, while James Anderson, who had entered the Sydney Test as the number-one ranked bowler, dropped by the same number of points following the last Ashes Test. READ: Faf Du Plessis: SA team’s response to tough periods ‘brilliant’ This 10-point swing means the South African has moved ahead of the Englishman by one point after nine points had separated the two fast bowlers leading into the two Tests. A delighted Rabada said: “It’s special to be ranked as the No.1 Test bowler in the world. It is a surreal feeling. It’s what you dream of achieving when you start playing the game. “Cricket is ultimately a team sport and I’m thankful for the support from my teammates. It’s a great start to the year personally and for us as a team, hopefully, we can continue putting in winning performances.” Rabada is the seventh South Africa bowler to top the ICC Test Bowling Rankings after Aubrey Faulkner, Hugh Tayfield, Peter Pollock, Shaun Pollock, Dale Steyn and Vernon Philander. Rabada’s team-mate Philander is the other bowler inside the top-20 to make an impressive gain. READ: Philander bags career-best figures as S Africa beat India For his match figures of nine for 75, which also earned him the player of the match award, the 32-year-old has earned 67 points, which, in turn, has lifted him from 12th to the sixth position. Philander now trails Australia’s sixth-ranked Josh Hazlewood by eight points and has an opportunity to break into the top-five following the Centurion Test, which begins on Saturday, 13 January. In the ICC Player Rankings for Test Batsmen, Australia’s Steve Smith is unchanged on 947 points in first position, but there is some movement just behind him. England captain Joe Root has leapfrogged India’s Virat Kohli and Kane Williamson of New Zealand’s into fourth position, while India’s Cheteshwar Pujara has slipped from third to fifth. Root has earned 26 points from the Sydney Test in which he was dismissed once in scoring 141 runs, but Kohli has dropped 13 points after his contributions of five and 28 at Newlands. Pujara’s scores for 26 and four result in his total falling by 25 points. READ: Proteas on top despite Pandya heroics South Africa’s Hashim Amla and Dean Elgar have slipped three places a piece to finish in 10th and 16th positions respectively, but AB de Villiers has risen five places to 13th with a slot in the top-10 firmly within his sights. South Africa opener Aiden Markram, who was the player of the tournament in the ICC U19 Cricket World Cup in 2014, and India all-rounder Hardik Pandya are the other big movers from the Newlands Test. Markram has moved up six places to 48th, while Pandya is now ranked 49th after rocketing 24 places. ICC Test Player Rankings for Test Batsmen 1 Steve Smith
	2 Joe Root
	3  Virat Kohli
	4 Kane Williamson
	5 C. Pujara
	6  David Warner
	7 Azhar Ali
	8 D. Chandimal
	9 Alastair Cook
	10 Hashim Amla ICC Test Player Rankings for Test Bowlers 1 Kagiso Rabada
	2 James Anderson
	3 Ravindra Jadeja
	4 R. Ashwin
	5 Josh Hazlewood
	6 Vernon Philander
	7 Rangana Herath
	8 Neil Wagner
	9 Nathan Lyon
	9 Mitchell Starc ICC Test Player Rankings for All-rounders 1 Shakib Al Hasan
	2 Ravindra Jadeja
	3 R. Ashwin
	4 Ben Stokes
	5 Vernon Philander African News Agency