JOHANNESBURG - Despite Eskom selling less electricity and repeatedly finding itself in financial trouble, its staff complement increased by more than 50 percent over the last decade. The power utility is paying its nearly 48,000 workers an average monthly salary of more than R50,000. The Organisation Undoing Tax Abuse (Outa) says the embattled state-owned enterprise could save an estimated R10-billion by cutting a third of its workforce. The civil rights group says that despite the staff numbers increasing, productivity had gone down by a staggering 32 percent. WATCH: Court orders Brian Molefe to pay back the money “If Eskom was an efficient organisation it would have improved its productivity," said Outa CEO Wayne Duvenhage. "That equates to about 15,000 heads too many. That cost, if you remove it on an average income basis, you would be able to remove R10-billion in cost. It’s a tough thing to do in an environment where unemployment is a problem,” he said. Despite incurring massive losses, according to its financial reports, the company still managed to pay its employees bonuses totalling billions of rand in the previous financial year. If the total amount allocated for bonuses is divided by the nearly 48,000 Eskom employees, each one would have received a bonus of at least R88,000. Experts have argued that Eskom should follow the example set by Telkom to address its liquidity challenges. READ: SA has no money for nuclear power: Ramaphosa “They need to unbundle, look at their staffing levels. (This) means negotiating with unions might mean retrenchments, retraining people into different areas such as the renewable sector, may even mean shedding staff and setting them up in business," said energy expert Chris Yelland. "At Telkom, many of the installation and maintenance staff were set up with their own little company and they became contractors of Telkom.”
	
	Analysts say Eskom is a bloated and inefficient state-owned enterprise that needs to trim its fat, both in terms of staff and unjustifiable salaries and bonuses. eNCA