JOHANNESBURG -  A new academic year for student-athletes means gearing up for upcoming competitions before they have even finalised registering for their academic year. FILE: UJ track athlete Sheldon Thomas in action. Sheldon Thomas and Christiaan Schultz are University of Johannesburg's track para-athletes and are currently training for the upcoming National Athletics Championships in Bloemfontein. Thomas whose a visually impaired athlete was born with a rare eye condition called coats disease, where the blood vessels in the eye burst open and the liquid that seeps into the eye actually tears the retina off causing irreversible vision loss. He was one of the athletes selected to represent South Africa at the World Championships in London 2017 but due to financial constraints, the young athlete was unable to go. "The team selection process was a very tough one, there are extremely talented athletes in South Africa at the moment. Upon selection into the team I was informed that I would have to fund my own trip, however, I could not find the funds in time as it was very expensive", said Thomas. Schultz who has club foot also known as Congenital Talipes Equinovarus says he wants to perform well at the upcoming national championships. FILE: Christiaan Schultz competing at athletics trials in Western Cape. "I want to perform well at Nationals in Bloemfontein and hopefully run international qualifying times", said a determined Schultz. Both athletes think there isn't enough coverage of para-sport in the media and in turn para-athletes are undervalued. "In all honesty, para-athletes are extremely underrated and undervalued, the media and in particular media in South Africa does not pay enough attention to not only para-athletes but para-sports in general, said Thomas. Studying and training can be strenuous for any student if you don't have the proper support structure and Schultz believes he has the right backing to make into the 2019 World Championship and 2020 Paralympics teams. "I’m currently studying journalism at UJ and I have fantastic management and facilities at UJ that help me achieve my goals. Especially with my eyes set on the 2019 World Championship and 2020 Paralympics teams. - Palesa Manaleng eNCA