JOHANNESBURG -  Tokkie van den Berg finished in the driver’s seat after first round action wrapped up in the 13th event of the Race to Q-School Series, however, Omar Sandys leads a troop of Gary Player School members who are hot on the heels of the Pretoria golfer at Modderfontein Golf Club on Monday. What a character Omar Sandys is ----#VOGSishen @Vodacom pic.twitter.com/Yy0ryTe0nO Six of the 24 players who broke par on day one in the IGT Challenge Tour event are members of the Sunshine Tour’s development initiative. Four Gary Player School players finished within five shots of Van den Berg, who set an unbeaten target with a flawless seven-under-par 65, including Sandys, who picked up two birdies on the back nine to join Philip Geerts in second on five-under. Makhetha Mazibuko carded a four-under 68 to grab a share of fourth with Ruan Huyshamen, Damian Naicker and amateur Andre van Heerden. Allister de Kock is four off the pace in joint eighth alongside Werner van Wyk and Big Easy Tour winner Wynand Dingle. Heinrich Bruiners is a further shot back at two-under with Sunshine Tour campaigners Callum Mowat and Breyten Meyer, IGT Challenge Tour winner Jason Roets and amateur Juran Dreyer. “I played with Omar today and we honestly had the best time out there,” Van den Berg said. “He keeps you so relaxed and you just really enjoy your golf. It’s amazing how he can conjure up these spectacular shots while he’s cracking a joke. I think when Omar really turns it on, we’ll be heading for cover. Omar Sandys is looking quite colorful today. #BETKingsCup Round One in progress.
		
		Click here for live scores: https://t.co/FMuOwbH0ZE pic.twitter.com/LvYq4UK90T “It’s amazing how the Gary Player School players are starting to come through. Guys like Makhetha, Heinrich and Omar have started the season strong and it’s great for the younger guys to have such awesome role models. I think it’s just a question of time before one of them wins.” Van den Berg will be heading to the Sunshine Tour’s Qualifying School in March himself. A good performance at Modderfontein this week could propel him into the top 10 in the Race to Q-School Order of Merit and the HPC Tuks Golf Academy player is keen to keep the momentum alive. “I’m really happy with my bogey-free effort,” said the 27-year-old Pretoria Golf Club player. “The last year felt like a very long grind. Some things were working, but there was always something that was off. I finally started to feel like I was on the brink of a breakthrough three weeks ago when the season restarted. Omar Sandys talks about his hole-in-one on the Par-3 16th at #SunCityChallenge pic.twitter.com/akD89lfUif “I am striking the ball incredibly well and I have a lot of confidence in my tee shots and irons. I’m not afraid to attack the pins and I give myself a lot of chances. The putter didn’t cooperate, though. I hit 17 greens in regulation in the final round at Centurion last week, but shot 71. Today I hit 16 greens and had 29 putts for a 65, so the putter has finally come to the party.” First Round Scores All competitors RSA unless otherwise specified and amateurs are indicated as AMA: 65 - Tertius van den Berg 67 - Philip Geerts (ITA), Omar Sandys 68 - Andre van Heerden AMA, Makhetha Mazibuko, Ruan Huysamen (NAM), Damian Naicker 69 - Allister de Kock, Werner Van Wyk, Wynand Dingle 70 - Juran Dreyer AMA, Breyten Meyer, Callum Mowat, Heinrich Bruiners, Jason Roets 71 - Gerard du Plooy, Antonio Costa (CHL), Nick Loake, Coert Groenewald, Clinton Grobler, Luke Brown AMA, Paul Boshoff, John McClean (NIR), Dayne Moore (ZAM) 72 - Dongkwan Kim (KOR), Eric Park (KOR), Kyle Barker, Albert Venter 73 - Matt Bright, Azelia Meichtry AMA, Basil Wright, Pieter Moolman, Divan Marais, Ruan Conradie, Antonio Rosado (POR), Conway Kunneke, Thriston Lawrence 74 - Juan Langeveld, Sipho Bujela, Aubrey Beckley, NJ Arnoldi, Matthew Vogel, Andrew Carlsson AMA, Dylan Mostert AMA, Dwayne Basson, Estiaan Conradie, Teboho Sefatsa, Ruhan van Dijk AMA, Theunis Bezuidenhout AMA, Norman Beggs 75 - Songezo Sonamzi, Jade Buitendag, Andi Dill, Leon Visser, Sean Bradley, Albert Visser, Adriel Poonan, Shaun van Tonder 76 - Michiel Bothma, Marco de Beer, Jason Viljoen, Duane Keun, Gilson Filho (BRA), Matthew Kiewitz AMA, Nic Watson, Roberto Lupini, Thabi Ngcobo 77 - Stephane van Neer AMA (COD), James Pennington (SWA), Carlo Heunis AMA, Igor Milicic (SRB), Ruben Labuschagne 78 - Tristan Brice AMA, Michael Dreyer, Luke Jerling, Ruan Korb, Daniel Joubert, Andrej Skrbinsek AMA, Mpho Mafishe, Jason Diab 79 - Eric Nel AMA, Aneel Kallan AMA, Mohammed Ismail AMA, Dylan Docherty, David Rebelo AMA 80 - Duan Nagel AMA 81 - Adrian Brabson AMA, Dylan Morton AMA 82 - Allan Jirek AMA (CZ), Alwyn Smith AMA 83 - Donald Makhafola AMA, Shaun Bernstein AMA 84 - Liam Clinton AMA, Shalan Govender 85 - Terence Mogapi, Neville Mitchell AMA, Kyle Murphy AMA 87 - CJ Brits AMA 95 - Dylan van Heerden AMA RTD - Deon Bredenkamp, Irvin Mazibuko. African News Agency