JOHANNESBURG - Gauteng Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi has his hands busy not only with Overvaal Hoërskool, but with a number of other schools in the province. The Vereeniging school has seen violent protests since last week over the facility’s language policy. In a statement released by the department, at least four other schools are facing disruptions, while a protest in the Krugersdorp is also affecting schooling. READ: Houses torched in Krugersdorp protest, police outnumbered Noordgesig Primary School The Gauteng Department of Education (GDE) said disruptions were also reported at Noordgesig Primary School on the morning of 22 January. Classes however resumed as normal, with Lesufi due to visit the school on Tuesday. Daliwonga High School Parents disrupted classes on Monday, according to the GDE, demanding action from school management on sexual assault claims against a teacher. The school governing body chairperson and the principal are also accused of corruption by angry parents. The GDE dispatched a team to the school to intervene in the matter. Hoërskool Akasia A group of parents visited Hoërskool Akasia on Monday to protest against the non-admission of their children, the GDE revealed in the statement. Some parents resorted to dropping off their unplaced children at the gate, dressed in the school’s full uniform, officials said. "While the parents’ frustration is understandable, it is a matter of concern that the children were left unsupervised. As stated previously by the department, the school is full and cannot accept additional learners. The parents were given alternative placements at Hercules High School, which they declined," the GDE added. Ponelopele High School The GDE said it also experienced disruptions at Ponelopele High School in Midrand on Monday. Parents were demanding that some educators, who they believe are not performing, should be removed from their posts. Consensus was reached with parents to allow learning and teaching to continue, while the department attended to their concerns. Krugerdorp area Protests in Kagaiso and Munseiville outside Krugersdorp disrupted schooling in the West Rand, officials said. "Parents are called upon to take precautionary measures and prioritise the safety of their children. We will monitor the situation," the GDE said. Hoërskool Overvaal Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga along with Lesufi visited Hoerskool Overvaal in Vereeniging on Monday, where protests have been taking place since last week. READ: Motshekga, Lesufi meet stakeholders at Hoërskool Overvaal The minister and MEC were there to discuss the tense standoff with various stakeholders. "The MEC reiterated the decision of the Department to appeal the decision of the High Court on the matter. In addition, he appealed for calm and for all stakeholders to channel their concerns to his office," the GDE urged. eNCA