JOHANNESBURG - ANC secretary-general Ace Magashule on Tuesday announced the recall of President Jacob Zuma due, in part, to the "period of uncertainty and anxiety as a result of the unresolved matter of transition". Magashule presented a statement from the ANC national executive committee (NEC) on the outcome of the special meeting that took place on Monday and into the early hours of Tuesday. The NEC decided to recall Zuma after Magashule and ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa returned to the NEC from a late-night visit to Zuma at his nearby home. IN TWEETS: #ZumaIsGoneParty goes viral Some of the most important statements Nagashule made at the briefing are: 1. The president reportedly agreed in principle to resign and proposed a timeframe of three to six months. The NEC disagreed with the timeframe and proposed decisive action in order to "steer the country towards greater levels of unity, renewal and inclusive economic growth". 2. No deadline has been set for Zuma to respond to the news of the recall. Magashule said media should expect a statement from the president on Wednesday. 3. The NEC has pledged support for Ramaphosa to take over as president of the country as he is the president of the ANC. Magashule said: "We want comrade Ramaphosa to come in as the president of the country". 4. The NEC is not planning to bring any disciplinary action against the president nor have they decided to recall him due to wrongdoing on his part. "We must treat Zuma as the president of South Africa. He has not been found guilty by a court of law. We didn't take this decision because he did something wrong," Magashule said. 5. The recall decision was not unanimous but it was announced as a collective. The secretary-general said many different views were aired in the lead-up to this decision but the final choice was made as a group. #ZumaRecall: Ace Magashule: "Was our decision unanimous? No, in meetings there are different views...but at the end we look at the situation...we take a decision as a collection." Courtesy #DStv403 pic.twitter.com/iuX4hTVJ9E "Ace Magashule is a deeply conflicted individual," says Political Analyst @KarimaBrown who joins anchor @maggsonmedia now outside Luthuli House. Courtesy #DStv403 pic.twitter.com/vGhjPsHSEC eNCA