CAPE TOWN - Cape Town City wrapped up the PSL January transfer window business with the capture of former Kaizer Chiefs forward Matthew Rusike on Wednesday evening. Other players making moves in the final few hours of the transfer window were Innocent Nemukondeni, who joined Bloemfontein Celtic from Ajax Cape Town, Riyaad Norodien, who leaves Orlando Pirates for a loan deal at Platinum Stars, and Kaizer Chiefs winger William Twala, who will play for Maritzburg United for the remainder of the season. READ: Big PSL transfers: the movers and shakers Zimbabwean international and former Amakhosi striker Rusike last played for Tunisian side Club Africain and had seemingly been set to move to Sweden before being convinced to make a return to the PSL. "Rusike arrived at Cape Town International on deadline day to conclude the deal with City. He arrived from Stockholm amidst a likely return to the Swedish Premier League – and we are delighted that Matty has decided to join us amidst other offers," the Cape club stated. Nemukondeni has, meanwhile, signed a two-and-a-half-year deal with Celtic after he struggled to make an impact at Ajax following his arrival from University of Pretoria at the start of this season. The Urban Warriors have also signed a host of new forwards in January. READ: SuperSport United confirm Brockie release Having lost their star striker Evans Rusike to SuperSport United earlier in the week, Maritzburg United off-set the Zimbabwean's departure to a degree with the loan signing of William Twala, an attack-minded midfielder who has been unable to get his Chiefs career up and running since he joined from Chippa United two-and-a-half seasons back. Another player who has battled for game-time is Orlando Pirates winger Riyaad Norodien, and he gets the chance to reignite his career with a loan spell at bottom-of-the-table Platinum Stars. Pirates also announced earlier in the week the acquisition of Zambian Player of the Season, Augustine Mulenga, the striker being signed from Zanaco. READ: Mlambo signs for Pirates For now it looks like Mamelodi Sundowns are to hang on to two of their best players, Percy Tau and Khama Billiat. Tau was linked with a move to Denmark or Russia but still has 18-months on his contract with Sundowns and will likely depart within the next year. Billiat's contract, however, expires in June and the Brazilians are now set to be forced to allow the former PSL Player of the Season to leave for free. The Tshwane club still remain linked with Bafana Bafana midfielder Andile Jali, currently based in Denmark with KV Oostende, but that is now only likely to happen in time for next season. African News Agency