JOHANNESBURG - The African National Congress (ANC) is yet to comment on what transpired at a meeting with President Jacob Zuma on Sunday night at his official residence in Pretoria. However, NEC member, Lindiwe Sisulu, confirmed on Sunday night that the ANC's National Working Committee (NWC) would be meeting at Luthuli House on Monday afternoon. On Sunday, ANC chairperson Gwede Mantashe said the ANC National Executive Committee (NEC) planned to discuss "what’s in the best interests of the country" with Zuma. The meeting concluded late on Sunday night, but there was no word on what the outcome thereof was. Calls have been mounting for the President to step down ahead of the State of the Nation (SONA) address on Thursday. In December, Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa was elected as president of the governing party and many have said he should replace Zuma as head of the country sooner rather than later. READ: EFF wants secret ballot for Zuma no confidence vote The Black First Land First (BLF) will lead a "Hands off Zuma" demonstration on Monday, calling for President Jacob Zuma to be allowed to serve out his term. However, a group purporting to be made up of ANC members and supporters will hold a counter-protest at the party's headquarters in Johannesburg on Monday against the pro-Zuma demonstrators. On Saturday, ANC NEC member Bheki Cele took a swipe at those who promised to defend Zuma at the ANC headquarters. “They have no business, if they are not members of the ANC, to march and determine what the ANC must do. Comrade JZ is a deployee of the ANC and the ANC will have to decide... "I don’t know who they are. I don’t know what they want, they must go and deal with their organisation and with their things and allow the ANC to deal with its matters,” said Cele. WATCH: SONA 2018 to go ahead as planned On Sunday, political analyst Prince Mashele said it’s difficult for the ANC to recall President Jacob Zuma because of its internal divisions. "The ANC is a divided party, that’s why it speaks with many mouths," said Mashele. "There is no clear resolution that Zuma must resign...Zuma doesn’t want to get out of office - he might be charged. You wouldn’t rush - you would want to use every minute with a divided ANC and a man who is facing a door to prison." Mantashe, meanwhile, on Sunday Tweeted about how well the economy was doing since Ramaphosa took over the reigns of the ANC. eNCA