CYPRUS - Banyana Banyana Coach Desiree Ellis has the full complement of her squad for the Cyprus Women’s Cup where they will face Slovakia, Hungary and Korea DPR this week. Late arrivals goalkeeper Kaylin Swart and midfielder Zanele Nhlapho joined the national squad on Sunday in Cyprus. South Africa’s first opponent is a clash against Slovakia on Wednesday (start at 1pm). READ: Desiree Ellis appointed Banyana Banyana coach Swart flew in from the United States of America where she is studying, while Nhlapho is a late call-up after the withdrawal of Kholosa Biyana early last week. This is the 11th edition of the tournament, which runs from Monday to March 7. The South African delegation arrived in Cyprus on Saturday and held a light training session in the evening. Swart missed the session, but is optimistic about Banyana Banyana’s chances. “I am excited about the tournament. We have been here a couple of times before and we know what to expect. We have a very good squad, with a strong mindset and we know what we are playing for, and I believe we can compete and have a very good run." "We have a good chance of doing well. I have been here before, but never got a chance to play, so we have a bit of experience when it comes to this tournament. I believe we will shock a couple of teams because we know what we can do,” said Swart. “We should use this tournament as a stepping stone for the hectic year ahead. If we want to conquer the world we have to start at home. We definitely want to go to France for the World Cup and this year is going to be a crazy one. READ: Banyana Banyana crowned 2017 CAF National Team of Year "We have to do the best we can in every competition, use all the positives to our advantage and I believe we have what it takes to get to the top.” Next up is Hungary on Friday, at 6pm, with Korea DPR being the last in the group stages on Monday, March 5 at 1pm. “No game will be easy, they are all good opponents and we are looking forward to the challenge because we are all excited to be back in camp and playing for our country. We have to go into every game with a winning mentality and show what we are capable of,” added Swart. Swart, who was in goals in the 3-1 loss to Sweden in Cape Town last month, will have to battle it out with Andile Dlamini and Roxanne Barker for a starting place. “The good thing is that we have three strong goalkeepers and we have a healthy relationship. We compliment each other big time because we all have different strong points, giving the coaching staff a wonderful headache." African News Agency