JOHANNESBURG - The South African Reserve Bank has fined the China Construction Bank R75-million for non-compliance. This is in terms of the Financial Intelligence Act’s anti-money laundering and combating of the financing of terrorism control measures but the central bank points out it doesn’t mean the construction bank is guilty of any wrongdoing. It has been given three years to improve these weaknesses. Failure to flag suspicious and unusual transactions, and failure to formulate and implement adequate processes to detect and report possible terrorist-related activities. Those are some of the administrative flaws that have led to the Reserve Bank slapping the Johannesburg branch of the China Construction Bank with a multi-million rand fine. “They’re obliged to make sure that the people with whom they transact are known to them,” said Werksmans Attorneys Head of Business Crime Bernard Hotz. “They have to satisfy themselves that there’s a bona fide business which is being carried out by them. “They have to understand the nature of the business. They also have to keep an eye on the flows. The inflows of monies. The outflows of monies and if for instance an accountable institution finds that in their view, they suspect that there’s a problem. They have an obligation to report.” READ:  Reserve Bank's support for Capitec based on inaccurate information: Viceroy The Financial Intelligence Act mandates the Reserve Bank to ensure that banks have adequate controls in place to combat acts of money laundering and the financing of terrorism. “The law says you cannot merely turn a blind eye,” Hotz said. “You have to train your employees on how to implement the provisions of the act and you have to be fastidious in doing so. That’s the only way that we can try and combat this problem of corruption, money laundering and terrorist financing activities.” The Reserve Bank has suspended R20-million of the fine on condition the bank strengthens its compliance and control deficiencies.
	                                                                                    
	“The inspectors step in and say, no no no, you’re not complying properly,” Hotz said. READ: Nationalising Reserve Bank will be expensive: SARB “Best you do so and in the interim we’re going to fine you but we’re going to suspend a portion of the fine because we’re going to require you to put these remedials to make sure that the people can place good reliance upon the securities of your systems.” Hotz says it is important to note that South Africa has good legislation when it comes to combating financial crimes like money laundering and illicit financial flows. He says institutions need to ensure employees are adequately trained on how to implement the provisions of the Act. eNCA