JOHANNESBURG – The father of slain Bafana Bafana captain Senzo Meyiwa says he's received death threats because of his quest to get answers on his son's murder. Meyiwa was shot in October 2014 in Ekurhuleni. October will mark four years since Senzo Meyiwa was murdered. Bafana Bafana's much-loved captain was shot while visiting his girlfriend in Vosloorus, Ekurhuleni. Media reports over the weekend claim the police are close to making arrests. But Meyiwa's father, Sam says he’s not been briefed about any new developments. “I saw on social media that there's apparently someone who was there where Senzo was murdered, who talks about what happened on the day. But they don't want to come out. Even the one who pulled the trigger is known.” Meyiwa's father: Murder unsolved three years on An emotional Meyiwa says he will not rest until he knows the truth. He says his family is facing difficult times, as his son was their sole breadwinner. His attempts at claiming Senzo's pension savings have not yielded results. “This is a disgrace. The captain of the national team! What is it that Senzo has done to be forgotten like this? They neglect him because he is no more. They only needed him because he was alive, so it basically means they only cared for living players. Once you die, you're forgotten,” he said. Senzo’s death shocked the nation, and he was accorded a special provincial funeral. READ: Police reconstruct Senzo murder scene His father says instead of getting updates on the investigation into his son's murder, he's now receiving death threats himself. “It's been four years investigating one case, and no one has been arrested. Instead I'm getting death threats that they want to kill me because I'm the one making noise, and when I'm dead it will be quiet. But I can't keep quiet,” Meyiwa's father added. Inside Meyiwa's house the memories of 2014 are still very painful for the family. Police say they are continuing with the investigation but they deny following any close lead. eNCA