JOHANNESBURG - Eskom has reversed an ultimatum given to Matshela Koko that he must resign or be fired. Koko, the power utility’s head of generation, will now face internal disciplinary action. BREAKING: #Eskom has charged #MatshelaKoko with failing to declare “trips to Dubai paid for by...an associate of the Gupta family”.
		Also: he’s charged with sending “confidential Eskom documents to...persons associated with the Gupta family”. pic.twitter.com/aYcZpmYmpE Acting CEO Phakamani Hadebe had defended the earlier ultimatum, saying Koko had become the face of corruption at the parastatal. Eskom is currently navigating a turbulent financial crisis. #Eskom says #MatshelaKoko was “at best grossly negligent” in his handling of the Trillian saga - an attitude that “allowed a criminal scheme to defraud Eskom to continue”. pic.twitter.com/pGAD6YE6yX The Public Investment Corporation has stepped in to help, with a R5-billion loan to cover its operational costs for this month. Earlier Koko headed back to the Labour Court.
	
	The court threw him a lifeline, stopping Eskom from firing him. READ: Eskom's Koko suspended Last week, Hadebe issued Koko an ultimatum on Thursday to be fired or resign within 24 hours. But in a turn of events, Eskom has instituted new disciplinary inquiry against him. BREAKING: #Eskom - represented by Advocate Thembeka Ngcukaitobi - says it is no longer giving #MatshelaKoko the ultimatum to resign or be fired.
		Instead, its instituting a new disciplinary inquiry against him. pic.twitter.com/5y8fkECMou #Eskom says #MatshelaKoko Labour Court to block his dismissal now moot - as he no longer facing immediate dismissal, but instead will go through a disciplinary process for misconduct
		Due to "extreme exceptional circumstances", Koko is suspended prior to resolution of that inquiry pic.twitter.com/cCYuRrbuiP Koko has been implicated in awarding contracts worth R640-million to a company in which his stepdaughter owns shares. He's asking the court to declare Hadebe’s ultimatum unlawful and invalid. eNCA