JOHANNESBURG - The Zulu royal household has issued a statement, saying it has been inundated with calls from citizens following the leaking of a recorded conversation between Miway insurance employee and King Goodwill Zwelithini. #MiWay @miwayinsurance sales person/agent calls the Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini KaBhekuzulu to offer him insurance specials. Seemingly the sales person was not aware as to who he was speaking to. He addresses the King by his first name.@eNCA pic.twitter.com/8SnQnuOrDl LISTEN: Zulu King scolds, blesses MiWay sales agent According to the statement, the royal family considers the incident as a violation of privacy. "Though the employee was remorseful after His Majesty had reprimanded him, we are disappointed that instead of making a formal apology, Miway insurance leaked this audio clip to the members of the public," read the statement. Miway's CEO has Tweeted that he personally phoned Zwelithini to apologise and that the king was relaxed about the incident. When I called the King yesterday to apologise, as CEO, on behalf of MiWay, he was very relaxed about the incident. He had a good laugh about the fact that the incident was "all over social media" and said "don't worry, brother". We appreciate his generosity and humanness. However, the royal household says it not only considers the incident as an insult to the Zulu nation "but we believe that it is an indication of a high level of intolerance of the culture and customs of indigenous people of this country." "Our King is not only the direct heir and descendant of all the Zulu Kings, but is also the custodian of the Zulu traditions and customs. He has consistently upheld the timeless culture of respect which is the foundation upon which the Zulu nation is built," it continues. The blunder was calling the King by his first name. The King, however, did not take offense and saw the humor in the situation. The royal family says it is seeking legal guidance to explore possibilities of taking legal action against Miway. According to the statement: "It is our view that Miway should be punished for the violation of the Consumer Protection Act. The act guarantees the “right to privacy” and “right to fair and responsible marketing.” "In addition, the Royal Family will be lodging a complaint with Adv Pansy Tlakula who is the Information Regulator.  It is quite clear that Miway has violated the Protection of Personal Information Act. The Information Regulator is mandated to enforce compliance with acts which promotes the protection of personal information by public and private bodies." The royal household commended Zwelithini for his calmness during his conversation with the sales agent. eNCA