MOGWASE, North West - A group of men drank the blood of a man they had killed, the North West High Court heard on Wednesday. "They dipped their fingers in his blood, some scooped it with their hand and drank it. They also put it in a bottle and left with it," an eyewitness told the court. The woman, who is in the witness protection programme, said she saw Aubrey Seitsang hacking Sabata Petros Chale with a panga on the head, and also saw Forum 4 Service Delivery councillor Napoleon Webster at the scene where Chale was killed on December 8, 2016. The State alleges Seitsang, Webster, and 12 others hacked Chale (39) to death in Marikana West, allegedly over the allocation of low-cost (RDP) houses at Marikana West Extension. Chale was a SA National Civic Organisation (Sanco) member. READ: Charges dropped against men arrested for Marikana killings The witness said she knew Seitsang as one of the leaders who arranged houses for people in Marikana and said she had been at many meetings where Seitsang was present. After one of the meetings she approached Webster and asked him for a house, as she had seen that he was in charge of the process of allocating houses. "He agreed to give me a house. We went to see that house and he told me (how) other women got houses; he had to sleep with them and wanted sexual favours from me in exchange for the house. He wanted to rape me, he even followed me to my rented place and I was rescued by a friend who arrived when he wanted to rape me," she testified. READ: Marikana activist in court following escape from custody The witness told the court she saw Chale chased by a group of men, and Seitsang hacking him with a panga over the head before Chale managed to get into her yard. "His blood (sprayed) on me; it also sprinkled on the chairs. Sabata (Chale) went inside the house as the door was not closed. The group followed him and hacked him. He left my house and went to the neighbours. He was shot with something in the stomach before he fell. The group was joined by another and they dipped their fingers in Sabata's blood..." A pathologist told the court Chale was stabbed several times. He had multiple lacerations in the head, he was stabbed in the shoulder, his left lung had collapsed and had been punctured. African News Agency