JOHANNESBURG - Cricket South Africa on Saturday named Multiply Titans wicketkeeper/batsman Heinrich Klaasen and bizhub Highveld Lions all-rounder Wiaan Mulder as new caps in the Proteas squad for the first two Sunfoil Test matches against Australia to be played next month. They take the places of Andile Phehlukwayo and Chris Morris from the squad that played against India. If either of the new caps plays against Australia, he will become the 100th player to represent the Proteas in this format. “Klaasen has been tremendously impressive in the white-ball matches he has played for the Proteas and we firmly believe he can become just as good a player in the five-day format,” commented CSA National Selection Panel Convener Linda Zondi. “He has averaged nearly 50 with the bat in Sunfoil four-day cricket this season and hit two centuries. “We are also keen to have a backup wicketkeeper to De Kock in the squad. “The selection of Mulder continues our strategy to expand our pool of all-rounders against top-quality opposition. He is a batting all-rounder and his selection will depend on how we decide to balance our starting XI. "He has been the top all-rounder in the Sunfoil Series with a batting average of 60 (one century) and 15 wickets at an average of 28. “It has been very exciting this season to see the way young players have settled into the various Proteas squads and done well and this is a continuation of that policy,” concluded Zondi. Proteas Test squad: Faf du Plessis (Multiply Titans, capt), Hashim Amla (WSB Cape Cobras), Temba Bavuma (WSB Cape Cobras), Quinton de Kock (Multiply Titans), Theunis de Bruyn (VKB Knights), AB de Villiers (Multiply Titans), Dean Elgar (Multiply Titans), Heinrich Klaasen (Multiply Titans), Keshav Maharaj (Hollywoodbets Dolphins), Aiden Markram (Multiply Titans), Morne Morkel (Multiply Titans), Wiaan Mulder (bizhub Highveld Lions), Lungisani Ngidi (Multiply Titans), Vernon Philander (WSB Cape Cobras), Kagiso Rabada (bizhub Highveld Lions) African News Agency