PRETORIA - Cyril Ramaphosa is locked in talks with President Jacob Zuma while the country waits to hear if and when the President when will be stepping down. According to one of the top 6 officials, Ramaphosa "is doing just fine" in the negotiations with Zuma. READ: Still no word on whether Zuma will resign or not The Department of International Relations on Thursday announced the annual Ubuntu Awards ceremony was being postponed because it was associated with the State of the Nation Address (SONA). SONA was postponed as talks between Zuma and Cyril Ramaphosa, his deputy and successor as ruling party president, around the head of State's future continue. On Friday it emerged that the ANC's top six officials were no longer attending events leading to its Mandela centenary launch with the party saying national leaders have other urgent issues to attend to. Also on Friday, Zuma's wife, Thobeka Madiba-Zuma, suggested he will not go down without a fight in a post on social media platform, Instagram. Referring to Zuma as her "everyday crush", the first lady said: "Umsholozi did not join the ANC in 1991, jumped ship nor hip hopped between the struggle and wealth accumulation. "He left his home at a tender age to fight apartheid. He was prepared to pay the ultimate price. He will finish what he started because he does not take orders beyond the Atlantic Ocean." Madiba-Zuma posted the message with the hashtag #mattersofthestomach. She uses Zulu in parts of her post which, translated, suggests "things are about to get ugly" and "don't fight someone who is not fighting with you." READ: Mthembu rubbishes reports Zuma will resign on Saturday On Wednesday, Ramaphosa released a statement, saying he had a 'constructive' meeting with Zuma, and said he was aware that the uncertainty surrounding the future of Zuma was a cause of concern for many South Africans. "This is understandable. However, I am certain that the process we have now embarked on will achieve an outcome that not only addresses these concerns but unites our people around the tasks that all of us must necessarily undertake to build our country. We will be able to communicate further on President Zuma’s position as President of the Republic once we have finalised all pertinent matters," Ramaphosa said. eNCA