JOHANNESBURG – The African National Congress (ANC) Study Group on Public Enterprises has welcomed Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane’s report on Minister of Public Enterprises Lynne Brown. This was revealed in a statement issued on Friday. The Public Protector found Brown "in her written reply to the committee, inadvertently misled Parliament in her assertion that there were no other contracts of engagement concluded between Eskom and Trillian Capital Partners." The group also raised concerns over reports that former Eskom acting Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Matshela Koko, misled the parliamentary inquiry into Eskom. The Director-General of the Department of Trade and Industry Lionel October has alleged in a letter addressed to Eskom Inquiry Chair Zukiswa Rantho that Koko’s proclamation that his decision to procure coal from Brakfontein/Tegeta was based on test results of the South African Bureau of Standards (SABS). October said the claim was “factually incorrect, misleading and lacking in rationality.” The same @MYANC statement says its Study Group on Public Enterprises "is concerned by reports that former Acting Chief Executive Officer and Head of Generation, Mr Matshela Koko, misled the Parliamentary Inquiry of the Portfolio Committee on Public Enterprises into #Eskom." The group has since urged October to write a sworn affidavit with details on Koko’s testimony. “We cannot accuse Koko of any wrongdoing as we do not, as yet, possess any evidence of such wrongdoing,” the statement read. “However, we encourage October to draft a sworn affidavit detailing how Koko’s testimony, before the inquiry, was “factually incorrect, misleading and lacking in rationally.” #LynneBrown Following this recent statement from Zukiswa Rantho for the @MYANC's Study Group on Public Enterprises, three political parties are now calling for @CyrilRamaphosa to take remedial action against Lynne Brown. They are the ANC, DA and Cope. It says October is not the first person to make allegations about Koko’s testimony. "Exxaro’s CEO Mxolisi Mgojo told the committee that he “had never known of Eskom’s “pre-payment agreements” and that the first time he heard of it was in Koko’s Carte Blanche interview.” WATCH: Koko testifies at Eskom inquiry The  group says Koko ought to be given the opportunity to appear before the inquiry again to provide clarity and to end speculation. #LynneBrown Brown's own party @MYANC has - via Zukiswa Rantho - welcomed the @PublicProtector's report and trusts @PresidencyZA @CyrilRamaphosa will implement the remedial action recommended against Brown for "violating the Executive Ethics Code and the Constitution." Meanwhile, the Democratic Alliance and Cope have called for Brown to be fired. eNCA