SPONSORED: It's that time again when you've received your first paycheck for the new year. You're contemplating trading-in your second-hand car for a new one, selling your car privately through online classifieds or putting your old-timer in an auction. Many car sellers continue to suffer the haggle and hassle involved in the transaction of trading-in their vehicles, as most car buyers' only aim is to score compensation for making a big profit on sellers' trade-ins. Not to mention, the many safety risks attached to selling your car privately to a prospective 'buyer'. If you're planning to sell your car in order to make a new car purchase, online car buying services like CarZar.co.za recommends weighing-up your car selling options before delving into an undesirable situation and instead, guarantee a safe, convenient and transparent car sale. Car auctions: an opportunity or risk? Vehicle auctions are one of the many routes you can take when flogging your vehicle. But car sellers are naturally apprehensive when it comes to placing a used car up for auction, due to the lack of peace of mind about the safety of the transaction - especially when it comes to corporate de-fleet vehicles. Generally, bidders at car auctions can score a gem for a much lower price than buying a car from a private car sale. So, what does this say about the potential resale value you'd get for your old car? Yes, car auctions can have major advantages if you're selling a non-running vehicle, due to the 'voetstoots' rule attached to it. This, ultimately, means that you can sell your car as is, without suffering any legal implications. Nonetheless, you may encounter the hassle of threats of returning the car and a police case. Trading-in a car as an alternative to car auctions We've heard it all before: theft, scams, unreliable pricing, hijacking, fraudulent transactions and paperwork, head-aching haggling, the list goes on… These are some of the many potential risks to selling your car privately or trading in a car. Let's also not forget that certain second-hand car brands tend to trade better than others. This means that you're not guaranteed a good return on investment for your trade-in. In fact, as not all vehicles are considered 'on-demand' by dealerships, your car dealer may even reject your vehicle. You're probably thinking, "But, trading in my car will offer me the best second-hand value for it..." That's where you're being misled. When you trade-in your car, you're simply receiving a discount on your new car purchase - hence, car dealerships generally make a bigger profit on the used cars they sell than on new cars. Remember: by selling your car for cash and then visiting a dealership with cash in hand, you will be able to leverage on a much higher bargaining power and receive a better discount on your new car purchase. With cash in hand, you will also have more freedom to choose your next car purchase, instead of getting locked with a dealer who wants your car but may not have the vehicle you are looking for. The main concern for most South African car sellers is the safety of the transaction. For others, getting the best price is more important than convenience. CarZar comes with the complete package: www.carzar.co.za uses a unique algorithm to calculate the estimated market value of your car, using market trends and previous transaction histories. Dealers are willing to trust and pay more for cars evaluated by certified inspectors, due to the reduced safety risk and less concern over the transaction. By having your car inspected at one of CarZar's DEKRA or KwikFit partner-locations, you can expect more for your car. However, if convenience is a problem, CarZar will send their professional inspectors to your doorstep. Let CarZar advertise your car to their nationwide network of dealers for 48-hours, to help get you the best price the market is will to pay. They do all the work for you! Accept CarZar's instant cash offer or the highest offer made by their network of dealers, and they'll make an instant payment straight into your bank account, and take care of all the admin for you!