JOHANNESBURG – Its Soweto Derby time again. South Africa’s most historic and popular fixture in the Absa Premiership takes center stage at FNB Stadium this Saturday (3:30pm). eNCA.com takes a look at this weekend’s derby, as well as the impact it has on deciding which team ends the season as Absa Premiership champions. The coveted Soweto Derby has always promised to entertain, but after a few less than impressive clashes in previous seasons, there is no doubt the derby has to some extent, lost its x-factor, as fans across the country have been given very little to celebrate. However, this weekend’s encounter boasts more than just bragging rights up for grabs between the Soweto giants. It’s must-win for both the Soweto outfits, in order to increase the pressure on Mamelodi Sundowns, who sit pretty atop the premiership table, with 40 points. Just a point separate the Sea Robbers and the Amakhosi, who currently sit with 36 and 35 points respectively, with just eight games left in the season. #AbsaPrem Table pic.twitter.com/5yWUpqYRim What must also be considered is that three of the top six on the table have an outside chance of upsetting proceedings at the summit, as Free State stars, Maritzburg United and Cape Town City look to maintain their charge up the table, after more than a few stand-out displays this season. Last time out the derby ended in an entertaining stalemate at the FNB Stadium on 21 October, 2017. Nevertheless, the derby, under any circumstances remains the favoured calendar fixture in SA’s top flight, despite Sundowns’ mission in becoming the true kings of the PSL by any means necessary. Potential match-winners Name: Ryan Moon Position: Striker Club: Kaizer Chiefs Date of birth: 15-09-96  Ryan Moon, the younger brother of former Bafana Bafana international Bryce Moon, has become widely labeled as the next ‘cure’ for SA’s goal scoring crisis, and has been a breath of fresh air for the Absa Premiership. According to his club, it didn’t take long for the forward to catch the attention of scouts during his debut season with Maritzburg United. The striker signed with Kaizer Chiefs at the start of the 2016/17 season after some impressive performances for the Kwazulu-Zulu Natal side. Technically gifted, creative and quick, the exciting prospect has shown he has all the necessary qualities to play in a number of roles for the team, though he generally plays upfront. Name: Itumeleng Khune Club: Kaizer Chiefs Position: Goalkeeper Date of Birth: 20-04-87  Itumeleng Khune, a product of Chiefs’ development structures, is one of, if not the most experienced shot-stopper in the country. Khune is undoubtedly the man for the big occasion. Unparalleled prowess in his ball distribution married to his leadership skills and playing ability is more than any coach could ask for in a goalkeeper. Name: Luvuyo Memela Club: Orlando Pirates Position: Midfielder Date of Birth: 18-08-87  Memela is seen as a quiet player who gives his all everyday, by his club. The attacking player was first spotted and recruited while playing for Cape Town All-Stars in the National First Division. According to his club Memela wants to achieve and make history with the Bucs and be remembered by the Pirates faithful. Name: Justin Shonga Club: Orlando Pirates Position: Forward Date of Birth: 05-11-96  Orlando Pirates say Shonga, originally started playing football at Smiling Kids Academy at the age of 12, before he moved on to Chipata Young Stars F.C. In 2017, he joined Orlando Pirates where he hopes to win many titles with the Buccaneers and regain the African Crown. At a media briefing at the PSL offices, Parktown on Wednesday, Orlando Pirates coach Milutin Sredojević said, we look forward to the game and we respect our opponents. "This is a totally different ball game. One moment, one small detail, can change the game. When Saturday comes, we want to do our best and continue to perform in a way that our supports want from us." "This is a very special derby and nobody has ever won by talking." Kaizer Chiefs coach Steve Komphela said he wouldnt even recognise his own father when it came to the derby match day. "It is not done in a bad spirit. It is a dificult match for both teams, who are doing well at the moment. The threat is clear. "I can't remember when last Sundowns Chiefs and pirates were all in line to win the title. This is very exciting. We are coming into this derby with lots of confidence." - Additional images: AFP, Backpagepix - eNCA