JOHANNESBURG - Spain’s David De Gea is undoubtedly Manchester United’s saving grace as his one man show again saved United’s blushes in their Uefa Champions League first leg away trip against Sevilla on Wednesday. De Gea (27), signed for the Red Devils in 2011 and after a shaky start managed to cure United’s immediate goalkeeper problems after Edwin van de Sar hung up his gloves that very same year. It was only a matter of time before De Gea, who idolised both legendary United shot stopper Peter Schmeichel and Van de Sar, became a regular between the sticks at Old Trafford and eventually the savior.  Fast forward seven years of awards, records and accolades, De Gea is now recognised as one of the best goalkeepers in the world as well as the next superstar to grab the attention of Spanish giants Real Madrid. READ: De Gea stars as Manchester United settle for Sevilla draw Los Blancos, who almost signed De Gea during the 2015-16 season, are again rumored to be sniffing around the Theatre of Dreams for the Spaniards signature, as Keylor Navas looks set to exit the Santiago Bernabéu. The fast spinning rumour mill has been relentless in recent years regarding Real and United’s tug-o-war over De Gea’s services and now with many Real Madrid players linked to United, the chance of another high profile swap deal seems fairly likely.  Gareth Bale, Isco, Navas and more recently Toni Kroos have all at some point been liked to moving to Old Trafford. Paul Pogba, who’s United future has also been rumoured to be in doubt, is another big name linked to Madrid after a supposed 'falling out' with manager Jose Mourinho.   The Frenchman was benched during their UCL encounter with Sevilla, which saw youngster Scott McTominay given the green light to start. Real Madrid and Manchester United have on more than one occasion been at the centre of attention during a transfer window. David Beckham, Ruud van Nistelrooy, Gabriel Heinze, Cristiano Ronaldo and Angel Di Maria remain the stand-out deals between both clubs and it would be no surprise if another transfer record is broken in the near future. eNCA