CAPE TOWN - After India’s two-month tour of South Africa it all comes down to the last match when the two teams clash at Newlands on Saturday with the T20 series balanced at 1-1. Earlier in the tour, South Africa took the Test series 2-1, India dominated the one-day internationals 5-1, and now, the T20 International series is all square. India carried their winning momentum from the ODIs into the opening T20I, posting 203/5 and then keeping the home side to 175/9 with Bhuvneshwar Kumar, who had been so impressive in the Tests, coming good with a five-wicket haul.  South Africa then struck back, with Heinrich Klaasen and JP Duminy making timely half-centuries, in the face of rain and scorecard pressure, to chase down 188/4 with six wickets and eight balls to spare. In the absence of many of the regulars, it was up to Duminy to take responsibility, and the captain will be more pleased than anybody else that he’s been able to step up. Klaasen has been a revelation, proving with his 30-ball 69 that his heroics in the Pink Day ODI weren’t an aberration. READ: Klaasen takes attack to India as South Africa level T20 series His fearless strokeplay and switch-hits upset the bowlers’ rhythms and he gelled well with a captain who, even as DLS loomed, encouraged him to break down the chase into small targets. The lack of runs for David Miller and opener JJ Smuts will be a concern, but with Reeza Hendricks and Farhaan Behardien in decent touch, and Junior Dala getting his international career off to a good start with the ball, South Africa have enough reason to back themselves in the final game. However, they cannot count on getting any favours from India. Virat Kohli’s men, led by the captain himself, have never let their intensity drop, even on a long and challenging tour. While the captain, who dominated in the ODIs, has been short of runs in the shortest format, the middle order led by Mahendra Singh Dhoni has played positive cricket, while Shikhar Dhawan has been providing good starts. India’s wrist-spinners were instrumental in their success in the ODIs before the pacers came into play in the T20Is. But the drizzle at SuperSport Park made life difficult for all of them, and they, Yuzvendra Chahal first among them, will be keen to atone for all the runs leaked in the second game. A cloudy day is forecast in Cape Town, with showers in the morning, although it is expected to clear up in the evening. The moisture could prove to be tricky for the bowlers again. Squads South Africa: JP Duminy (capt), Farhaan Behardien, Junior Dala, Reeza Hendricks, Christiaan Jonker, Heinrich Klaasen (wk), David Miller, Chris Morris, Dane Paterson, Aaron Phangiso, Andile Phehlukwayo, Tabraiz Shamsi, JJ Smuts. India: Virat Kohli (capt), Rohit Sharma, Jasprit Bumrah, Yuzvendra Chahal, Shikhar Dhawan, MS Dhoni (wk), Dinesh Karthik, Kuldeep Yadav, Bhuvneshwar Kumar, Manish Pandey, Hardik Pandya, Axar Patel, KL Rahul, Suresh Raina, Shardul Thakur, Jaydev Unadkat. African News Agency