DURBAN - AmaZulu scored twice within four minutes in the second half to beat Golden Arrows 2-1 in a Premiership match played at the King Zwelithini Stadium in Durban on Saturday evening. The KwaZulu Natal derby was played in a typically physical style with tackles flying in thick and fast as the teams battled it out for the three points on offer. 64' Goal Usuthu! Siyethemba Mnguni gives Usuthu the lead. Fantastic work by the experienced Mabhuti Khenyeza set him up. Arrows opened the scoring in the 51st minute when striker Knox Mutizwa received a superb through-ball and with only the goalkeeper to beat, calmly slotted the ball home wide of AmaZulu keeper Siyabonga Mbatha. As they stepped up their efforts to find the equaliser, the Lamontville side was reduced to 10 men in the 74th minute when Danny Venter, who was recently signed from Free State Stars, was sent from the field for a late challenge on Sbusiso Mabiliso. Then it was the turn of midfielder Siyethemba Mnguni to turn the match around in favour of the Usuthu in the space of four minutes. First he produced an angled run to slot the ball home wide of Arrows' shot-stopper Nkosingiphile Gumede. Arrows had little time to recover from conceding before they found themselves 2-1 down, as Mnguni fired home a right-footed effort into the roof of the opponent's goal-net. The referee blows the final whistle. AmaZulu the victors tonight at King Zwelithini #AbsaPrem #DurbanDerby pic.twitter.com/iMXVBB9RBT AmaZulu also finished the match with 10 players on the park after experienced defender Michael Morton was sent for an early shower in the 81st minute. Having stretched their unbeaten league run to five matches (3 wins and 2 draws), AmaZulu moved further clear from the relegation battle below them, and now have 26 points from 20 games. They will host Mthatha Bucks in a Nedbank Cup encounter on Wednesday. Arrows, meanwhile, remain on 23 points from 20 games and will travel to face Soweto giants Kaizer Chiefs in a Nedbank Cup fixture next Sunday. African News Agency