JOHANNESBURG - The Chamber of Mines has agreed to postpone its court application for a review of the Mining Charter. The chamber and the Presidency said on Sunday that it had been agreed that the application, which was due to be heard on Monday, would be delayed. "The postponement serves to allow parties the space to engage and find an amicable solution," a statement from the Presidency said. The agreement followed the State of the Nation Address (SONA) on Friday, in which President Cyril Ramaphosa had committed to intensify engagement with stakeholders to come up with a charter they could all support and defend. Chamber President, Mxolisi Mgojo, said he welcomes the president’s intervention. Chamber President, Mxolisi Mgojo, said: “We welcome the President’s intervention, and his commitment to engaging meaningfully with stakeholders in the industry – and others - on a New Mining Charter #MiningCharter https://t.co/f6A9SsOJ5A In line with the spirit and the tone of the message as stated by the President during SONA on 16 February, the Chamber of Mines is agreeable to the request by the Presidency to give negotiations a chance #MiningCharter https://t.co/f6A9SsOJ5A READ: Mining charter goals are achievable: Zwane Chamber President, Mxolisi Mgojo, said: “For the Chamber of Mines, and the industry, legal recourse was always a last resort, intended to get the parties to the table, and the sooner we do that the better for the industry and our country.” #MiningCharter https://t.co/f6A9SsOJ5A The Presidency said the seven other applicants, as well as two amici curiae, namely the National Union of Mineworkers and Solidarity, had also agreed to postpone their applications. Ramaphosa said on Friday: “By working together, in a genuine partnership, underscored by trust and a shared vision, I am certain we will be able to resolve the current impasse and agree on a Charter that both accelerates transformation and grows this vital sector of our economy.” The chamber went to court in June 2017 to halt the charter, arguing that its implementation would harm the economy. Among the contentious changes in the charter was that new holders of mining rights be required to have 30 percent black ownership shared among employees, communities and black entrepreneurs. eNCA