JOHANNESBURG - ANC President Cyril Ramaphosa will not allow the party to serve the narrow interests of certain individuals, he said on Saturday. Ramaphosa was speaking in Limpopo after he and the rest of the ANC top six met the VhaVenda King and other traditional leaders. "We are going to do everything we can to handle everything in our movement carefully, delicately, responsibly with the view of advancing the interest of our people. And we will not be doing so to advance the interest of any individuals, be it myself or anyone. We will only serve one thing: to advance the interest of South Africa because that is who we serve," he said. #Ramaphosa #ANCConference decided that the elected leadership must be united. The ANC must be united. Like it or not, we must be united He said there is no place in the governing party for rotten apples. "We must not do wrong things. If there are wrong things that are done we must act immediately to root out those wrong things in the ANC. If there are people who are pulling us backwards, if there are people who are rotten tomatoes in the box, rather heave them than help them to spoil the whole box. We must root them out because that is what our revolution requires." Ramaphosa highlighted the importance of attracting investors to South Africa. WATCH: Zuma will deliver SONA, insists ANC SG "Those who want to invest in South Africa, we must bring them in like a magnet. We must pull them. So South Africa must, therefore, be an investment destination... "As long as they (investors) comply with our law our standard and everything that we want. They must bring their dollars, they must create jobs. Our people must have jobs." Ramaphosa reiterated the ANC conference's resolution on land expropriation without compensation. #ANCTop6 Ramaphosa:As we take land we must make sure that the economy and food production is not destroyed but these things will not stop us but we must keep them in mind. We must correct this error and go ahead what our forebears sort to do. He also promised that in 2018, families earning less than R350,000 per household per year will be able to access free higher education. eNCA