JOHANNESBURG - With pressure mounting for President Jacob Zuma to step down ahead of the State of the Nation Address (SONA) on Thursday, politicians took to social media to weigh in on the matter. He now says he will resign the day it rains in Capetown. This guy is not serious & is defying his political party. pic.twitter.com/c4xo3qlo2z Throughout the history of humankind, great leaders knew when to step down or fall on their swords. Those who stubbornly refused to go, left a sad legacy, ridiculed and shunned by their own people. If you are in a position of power, corporate or political, please go in good time If we are to have a Sona on the 8th of February. Let it be tabled along with a short speech for Mr Zuma simply saying, He resigns. This may justify the cost. He refused to resign and he told them to take a decision to remove him if they so wish to do so because he didn’t do anything wrong to the country. He’s arguing that he complied with all legal instructions including paying back the money, what more do they want from him Can't wait to see ANC members giving JZ a standing ovation after he has delivered the SONA. On Sunday, the ANC's top 6 officials met with Zuma, and at least one of them, chairperson Gwede Mantashe, has been pretty outspoken on social media. We are going to have a discussion with President #Zuma on what is in the best interests of the ANC & the country #ANCPilgrimage We want to ensure that there is stability in the country & ANC. Tonight, we are meeting President #Zuma #ANCPilgrimage Since Cde President Cyril #Ramaphosa was elected, Rand has strengthened. People are beginning to trust ANC. Ours is not to disappoint The Minister of Police, Fikile Mbablula, who is also an ANC NEC member and usually very outspoken on social media, has not tweeted anything specific about the Zuma recall calls, but has re-tweeted a number of individuals with strong opinions on the matter. President Zuma has a legal,political and moral obligation to disassociate himself from these characters who are threatening civil unrest in his name. Members of the NEC must stop the obsession of bashing each other in public.We are from a National Conference that decided on a leadership collective and a set of policies.Our focus as a leadership should be the resolute implementation of those conference resolutions..nothing else eNCA