PIETERMARITZBURG – Former President Jacob Zuma received a warm welcome at the KwaZulu-Natal legislature in Pietermaritzburg on Tuesday. It is one of few public appearance Zuma has made since resigning on Valentine's Day. King Goodwill Zwelithini, who was addressing the official opening of the legislature, called the former statesman heroic for stepping down. Zuma himself did not speak at the event but appeared relaxed, interacting with members of the public outside. Former President Jacob Zuma leaves Pietermaritzburg Royal Show Grounds after attending the opening of the KwaZulu-Natal Legislature.@eNCA pic.twitter.com/bC4CrQcBJj READ: Zuma bids farewell to Union Building staff “As the King of the Zulu Nation, I praise the decision of one of this province's sons, former president Zuma. His decision to resign is something I did not view as a sign of cowardice. Even himself, he didn't see it as being a coward. "In his decision, I saw a heroic deed. Only a fool won't see that Zuma's decision prevented a long and bad history common in other countries in Africa where political and leadership conflicts end up as a stumbling block in the wellbeing of future leaders.  Doing what is right is not cowardice but it's heroic," the king said, speaking in isiZulu. Meanwhile, Zwelithini addressed the issue his sole trusteeship of three million hectares of land under the iNgonyama Trust. Former president Kgalema Motlanthe wants the trust dissolved. GALLERY: Zuma in good spirits at farewell cocktail dinner The King said he has assembled a team of judges to meet various political parties on scrapping the trust. “This team will liaise with other non-governmental organisations for the same reason. I don't think anyone will be sceptical of this because like all nations, Zulus have a right to fight for what is theirs in a free South Africa... "It's good because we will communicate with political parties before the elections so that Zulus will know that when they vote, they vote for people who see it as a sin to have the Kingdom with land or not, as being Zulus." KwaZulu-Natal Premier Willies Mchunu will deliver the State of the Province on Wednesday. Former President Jacob Zuma’s decision to resign was “heroic”, says Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini KaBhekuzulu. He we addressing the official opening of the KwaZulu-Natal Legislature in Pietermaritzburg. @eNCA pic.twitter.com/LVxhhR2I2H Former President Jacob Zuma’s motorcade as he leaves PMB Royal Show Grounds after attending the official opening of the KZN Legislature.@eNCA pic.twitter.com/o7Oxnf4VcY eNCA