JOHANNESBURG – Former Springbok wing Bryan Habana is considering retiring at the end of the season according to reports. In an interview with Rugby365 over the weekend, Habana who plays for French club Toulon said he was thinking about bringing his playing days to an end. "My contract with Toulon ends in June [2018] and I'm not quite sure if [Mourad] Boudjellal is going to stick around with me much longer (sic). Also, I'm pushing the limits of the 30-club now, but I haven't quite made a decision yet. "If I don't play too much for the rest of the season then I might have another season in me but to move your family to another part of the world for about 10 months might not do it. So I am looking at various options outside of rugby but I haven't decided 100 percent yet," he told the #RugbyLateTackle team. READ: Humbling losses, unwanted records condemn Coetzee Habana turns 35 in June, and the 2007 Rugby World Cup winner said 2017 had been one of the tougher years in his career. "It's been an extremely frustrating few months," Habana said. "I got operated on in the middle of July [2017]. I've been back training with the boys for the past few weeks. Not getting any love from the coaches as yet, but hopefully I will be getting some soon.” If he decides against retirement, a move back to South Africa could be on the cards he hinted. "Obviously South Africa is home and while I am looking at various options, I probably won't stay in France. I will decide in the next few months, depending on how the body feels. "Looking back on the past 15 years, I really can't complain about the path I have had. If it is time to call it quits, there will be no regrets. Obviously, we want to go out on our own terms but I am looking forward to whatever is to come," he added. READ: Fiji fight back to edge SA in Hamilton Sevens final Habana last played for the Springboks in 2016 and made 124 Test appearances for South Africa. The speedster also holds the record for most Test tries with 67. Meanwhile, the Springboks have moved up one place to fifth in the World Rugby rankings released on Monday. The move is ironic as the South African Rugby Union parted ways with coach Allister Coetzee on Friday. The real reason for the rise in the rankings for South Africa was a result of Wales’ 34-7 victory over Scotland over the weekend. Scotland dropped two places to seventh, while Wales moved up one position to sixth. At the top of the rankings, New Zealand still occupies the mantle of best team in the world. England are second, Ireland third with Australia rounding out the top four. African News Agency