ENGCOBO - Police have confirmed that the eNgcobo church that allegedly sheltered the suspects linked to the eNgcobo police killings, is under investigation. Seven suspects linked to the gruesome murders of five policemen and a retired soldier were killed during a shootout with police. A closer look at the Mancoba Church property. #NgcoboKillings pic.twitter.com/ejJthenaue A special task team swooped on what is believed to be the gang’s hideout in a church. Residents have gathered outside Mancoba Church, where seven suspects linked to the #SAPSattack were killed in a shootout with police. pic.twitter.com/DqRphmHHmb READ: Mbalula lauds police in eNgcobo murder case Police Minister Fikile Mbalula arrived on Saturday morning to inspect the crime scene. He is expected to brief the media later. With the national and provincial leadership at eNgcobo this morning. We are motivated by the community for working with the police and salute our men and women in blue. pic.twitter.com/9KNUYCw1e0 The Hawks said more than 10 people have been arrested and an unknown number of suspects escaped and are being sought by the police. Police still busy at the Mancoba Church near Ngcobo, after a late-night shoutout wth suspects. 7 were killed,10 arrested and others escaped. It’s believed the group was hiding out here after a massacre at the Engcobo SAPS on Wednesday. #SAPSattack pic.twitter.com/m2S1uTh0uE Hawks spokesperson Brigadier Hangwani Mulaudzi said at least 100 children and women were found to be residing at the church. They were not caught up in the crossfire and have been taken away by police. This appears to be one of the structures where the women and children were living. They’ve been taken away by police. #NgcoboKillings pic.twitter.com/Sl1ilsxvFI Take a look at the conditions inside the sleeping area on the Mancoba Church property. This is where many women and babies lived. #NgcoboKillings pic.twitter.com/pz9e3tJMDL "As far as we know, there's a lot of people who are staying there," said Mulaudzi. Ngcobo residents are angry after finding out about what unfolded at Mancoba Church. This woman says they don’t want it here anymore. #NgcoboKillings pic.twitter.com/LYWiYFZ2fg READ: 'It's a national tragedy': Mbalula to visit police station after 6 shot dead Local resident Zibele Xuba said the community was shocked to learn that the suspects were hiding in the church. He said the church has long been linked to suspicious activities. “Two years back we once came here as a community to say that they must stop what they are doing because what they are doing is really funny,” Xuba said. “What I know is that they are keeping young children who should be schooling, they don't allow them to go to school. “They don’t give them their human rights. There are adults who resign, they stay there. It is said that they are taking their monies for years." Zibele Xuba, who lives near the Mancoba Church, claims “funny things” have been going on there for years. #SAPSattack pic.twitter.com/y0N2K1PO8U eNCA