PARIS - Former Arsenal striker Yaya Sanogo scored a late equaliser as Toulouse staged a late comeback to snatch a dramatic 3-3 draw with second-placed Monaco in Ligue 1 on Saturday. The point drags relegation-threatened Toulouse two points clear of the bottom three while reigning champions Monaco remain 11 points adrift of runaway leaders Paris Saint-Germain. Marseille visits PSG on Sunday when Rudi Garcia's men will be hoping to end a 15-match winless streak against their arch-rivals to leapfrog Monaco into second. Leonardo Jardim's principality side took an eighth-minute lead at the Stadium Municipal on Saturday as Rony Lopes grabbed his sixth league goal of the season. Keita Balde, who has hit some excellent form in recent weeks, caused havoc in the Toulouse defence after chasing down a long ball, before squaring for the onrushing Lopes to score. But the hosts didn't take long to find an equaliser, as midfielder Ibrahim Sangare sidefooted a shot through the grasp of Monaco goalkeeper Danijel Subasic to notch his first-ever Ligue 1 goal midway through the second period. Monaco was dealt another blow before half-time, as Senegalese youngster Balde hobbled off injured to be replaced by Stevan Jovetic. The Montenegrin international should have finished off a wonderful, sweeping move early in the second half, but after his effort bounced back off the post, Portuguese winger Lopes was on hand to lash into the roof of the net to complete a brace. Jovetic made no mistake when he was given another opportunity in the 72nd minute, as he combined with Rachid Ghezzal before stabbing in his third goal in two games after his initial chip was saved by Alban Lafont. But former Wigan and Caen striker Andy Delort gave relegation-threatened Toulouse hope of a comeback with a 78th-minute penalty, and Sanogo had the final say. The much-maligned 25-year-old, who only scored one goal in 20 Arsenal appearances before joining Toulouse last year, fired in an 87th-minute leveller with his second league goal for the club. AFP