JOHANNESBURG - Opposition parties called for a dissolution of Parliament on Monday. READ: DA to submit written request to dissolve Parliament At a press conference held by opposition parties, EFF leader Julius Malema labelled a transition from President Jacob Zuma to his deputy, Cyril Ramaphosa, "a swopping from one corrupt to another". Malema: “It’s not a transition it’s a swopping. From one corrupt to another. It’s now their time to eat. It’s just factionalism. Parliament must be dissolved after Motion of No Confidence Debate. “ #ZumaExit @eNCA @Julius_S_Malema Malema: “we don’t want Zuma, we don’t want Cyril, we don’t want the ANC. Dissolve Parliament. Fresh elections. #ZumaExit @eNCA pic.twitter.com/HUiNcToiDF The process to dissolve the National Assembly is set out in section 50 of the Constitution, which states that the president must dissolve the assembly if a supporting vote of the motion is adopted by the majority of the house. In order to effect this, 201 members of Parliament have to support the motion if each of the 400 seats in the National Assembly is filled. #OppositionParties are using two clauses of the Constitution to remove a President and Dissolve Parliament and go on early Election: Sec 102 & 50. pic.twitter.com/iWZDpcZW1c If Parliament is dissolved it will necessitate an early national election. It would also be the first dissolution of Parliament in democratic South African history. If a motion in terms of section 50 succeeds, section 49 dictates the next steps. This section requires the president, by proclamation, to call and set a date for an election, which must be held within 90 days of the date the National Assembly is dissolved. If the result of an election is not declared within the prescribed time - seven days, according to the Electoral Act - or if the result is set aside by a court, the president must again call an election. The National Assembly remains competent to function from the time it is dissolved, or its term expires, until the day before the first day of polling for the next assembly. eNCA