JOHANNESBURG – Some of the country's biggest media companies could face stiff financial penalties for alleged price-fixing and fixing of trading conditions. Twenty-eight companies, including the SABC, Media24, Primedia and Mail&Guardian, have been referred to the Competition Tribunal following an investigation by the Competition Commission. The probe found the companies agreed to offer similar discounts and payment terms to agencies that placed advertisements with members of Media Credit Co-ordinators (MCC), an industry body group. MCC accredited agencies were offered a 16.5 percent discount, while non-members were only offered 15 percent. READ: 'Overpriced' SA Airlink to face prosecution "The Commission found the practices restricted competition among the competing companies as they did not independently determine the discounts and thereby fixed the price and trading terms in contravention of the Competition Act," the Competition Commission said in a statement. The Commission wants the tribunal to declare the media companies broke the law and want penalties to be imposed. Companies could be fined as much as 10 percent of their annual turnover. The companies are: 1.            SABC                                      
	2.            Media 24, which owns newspapers like City Press and Beeld, and news website, News24.
	3.            Primedia, which owns radio stations like Talk Radio 702 and 94.7.                                               
	4.            Mail&Guardian                                
	5.            Avusa Media      
	6.            MTV Network Africa
	7.            Media 24 Magazines
	8.            Primedia Outdoor
	9.            Cinemark
	10.          Comutanet        
	11.          Conde Nast Independent Magazine
	12.          The Citizen    
	13.          Spark Media           
	14.          Apurimac Media
	15.          Provantage Media          
	16.          Radmark                                
	17.          Carpe Diem Media         
	18.          Rodale And Touchline
	19.          Mandla-Matla Publishing             
	20.          Ramsay Media                                     
	21.          Lugan Investments                 
	22.          Associated Media                          
	23.          Associated Hearst                  
	24.          Capro                                                   
	25.          Trudon
	26.          United Stations                            
	27.          Continental Outdoor            
	28.          Media Credit Co-ordinators Meanwhile, Independent Media, Caxton and DStv Media Sales admitted to charges in the same matter. The companies agreed to pay administrative penalties as part of separate settlement agreements with the Commission. Caxton will pay over R5.8-million, Independent over R2.2-million and DStv over R22.2-million. READ: Ster-Kinekor, Nu Metro collusion charges dismissed The companies also agreed to contribute towards the Economic Development Fund over the next three years to help develop small black-owned advertising agencies that require assistance with start-up capital and will assist black students with bursaries to study media or advertising, among others. “This is one of the legacy media practises that survived the introduction of the Competition Act in South Africa. It is a problem because it consolidates operations of a few media houses that gang up against mainly small advertising agencies. It is encouraging that some media houses have settled the matter and will also be directly contributing towards promoting the entry of small and black advertising agencies,” said Competition Commissioner, Tembinkosi Bonakele. eNCA