JOHANNESBURG – Economic Freedom Fighters leader Julius Malema says the ANC should leave President Jacob Zuma’s fate in the hands of parliament as they have failed to remove him from office. Unconfirmed media reports on Monday said the ANC’s top six leadership failed to convince Zuma to resign as head of state. If he does not resign in the next few days, Zuma will deliver the state of the nation address on Thursday. Two weeks later, there will be yet another no-confidence motion against him in parliament, the ninth in his presidency. “We are in a process of removing Zuma, all we are asking for from the ANC is that it looks like this guy has defeated you, leave him to us,” Malema said at a media conference at the EFF’s headquarters in Johannesburg. “Bring him here and the only way of bringing him here is to bring a motion of confidence before the State of the Nation Address.” READ: Zuma meets Zulu King Zuma is due to deliver the annual State of the Nation during a joint sitting of both houses of parliament. However, Malema says Zuma won’t deliver his speech but rather a motion of no confidence will be tabled and debated. “There is no state of the nation address on Thursday, it is a motion of no confidence which I will president it and we shall debate it in parliament then after the motion of confidence, the state of the nation shall happen,” said a defiant Malema. “First item [on Thursday will be the] motion of confidence and that is what we shall do.” READ: ANC working committee to meet as protesters prepare to march on Luthuli House Malema says they are happy that it now seems Zuma has become defiant to his own party. “This is what Zuma said to his closest allies, that they must fire me (Zuma) because they are going to lose the elections,” Malema said. “They will lose KZN and Gauteng because the Zulus in both provinces will be extremely offended by my removal so I’m not going anywhere. “You can be guaranteed the man wants to be pushed out, but what is worse is that Zuma is not scared of impeachment. He said even if you bring it I’m ready because after you do that there won't be a president of the ANC in this country. So Zuma has analysed it and said they fire me they are gone". eNCA