• Editor’s note: Livestream above courtesy DStv 403. You can also watch it on DStv Now. JOHANNESBURG - National Director of Public Prosecutions (NDPP) Shaun Abrahams will take the fight to save his job to the country's highest court on Wednesday. Abrahams is challenging a December North Gauteng High Court ruling that found his appointment was invalid and should be set aside. It also gave then-deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa 60 days to appoint his replacement. Former president Jacob Zuma joined the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) in appealing the decision, but since his appointment as president, Ramaphosa has withdrawn the appeal. READ: Ramaphosa withdraws Abrahams appeal Abrahams has denied trying to protect Zuma from prosecution and claims Ramaphosa’s rise to the presidency also removes any justification for his removal. He insists it is unfair to fire him, given that he has not been found unfit for the post. #ShaunAbrahams fighting for his job in the Constitutional Court tomorrow
		- in a case that will also decide if and when Abrahams' decision on the Jacob Zuma prosecution will be announced. https://t.co/zBFvP8X5dE Abrahams also wants to challenge the high court’s finding that he sided with Zuma in his response to the spy tapes and Mxolisi Nxasana cases. The NDPP is using the letters sent to Zuma’s lawyers and the Hawks, to show that he tried tracking down witnesses against the former president and to ensure that a decision on the Zuma corruption matter could be taken as soon as possible. On Monday, Abrahams confirmed he has made a decision on whether to reinstate corruption charges against Zuma, but delayed announcing the outcome until March 15. The letter sent by NPA to CASAC - advising it that #ShaunAbrahams has decided on fmr President Zuma prosecution.
		But he will wait two weeks, as agreed, to announce this decision - unless CASAC signs off on this time frame being waived. pic.twitter.com/c9JimhO4pU The Council for the Advancement of the South African Constitution (Casac) said it will argue that he cannot be the person to make this historic decision. READ: Casac doesn't want Abrahams involved in Zuma matter “I think the importance of this decision, in this case, is so important that it needs to be taken by a National Director of Public Prosecutions that the people of South Africa have confidence in,” said Casac's Lawson Naidoo. Ramaphosa hinted Abrahams might be jobless soon during the State of the Nation Address, saying he would fix leadership issues at institutions like the NPA and SARS urgently. eNCA