JOHANNESBURG - Team South Africa will truly be dressed for success at this year’s Commonwealth Games in Gold Coast, Australia. The official team kit launch took place in style at the Mall of Africa in Midrand, Gauteng, on Tuesday evening and the big news for fashionistas of the rainbow nation is that Italian clothing giant Lotto Sport Italia have designed all the team’s sporting apparel. Today was the offical launch of our Commonwealth Games kit. I will be wearing my nation's colours for the 4th time and feel very privileged and honoured to be part of @TeamSA18. I will go to Australia and give my all. pic.twitter.com/viDF30wihi A variety of South Africa’s most decorated sportsmen and women showed off the brand-new kit which saw a bold move away from the traditional green and gold design. Speaking at the launch, SASCOC president Gideon Sam said it was indeed a proud moment. READ: Wilson's Winter Olympics dream is over "No-one is more aware than us of the past controversies surrounding some of the team kits at previous multi-code events. With this in mind, we have asked the people that count, namely the athletes, to play an integral part in the kit design." National sports legend Natalie du Toit, now head of the Athletes Commission at SASCOC, said “a picture is worth a thousand words" was particularly apt. For their part, an official Lotto statement said: "Today Lotto is proud to announce the partnership with SASCOC, which confirms its commitment to the Olympic spirit. Whether you are training for the Olympics or for a local tournament, compete honourably, and Lotto will be there for you." #GoldCoast bound and looking good. Great fun to be at the launch of the ---- team's #commonwealthgames uniforms – Lots of very excited ---- athletes looking to do great stuff on the #GoldCoast. Hamba Kahle! @GC2018 #TeamMzansi pic.twitter.com/OtXTIYFCNS Explained a proud Du Toit: "For a few months leading up to the Games, athletes watch social media with bated breath, interested in what the Australian team and the American team kit will look like. "This is usually sent out at around the same time as the major qualification competitions for that specific international competition. "It is with pride that Team South Africa is able to do this too! "One of the first tasks of our Athletes Commission was to design the kit for the Commonwealth Games team 2018. We as the commission got straight to it and created something that we are proud of as a commission to present. READ: Wilson aims to put SA on the winter sports map "As our commission is represented by multi-coded sports players, we are proud to say that the designs have three specific aspects in mind. "Firstly, we have designed colour and fit to be wheelchair-friendly, secondly, we have designed colours that could be worn with any part of the kit and thirdly, we were adamant to not be completely green." The 2018 Commonwealth Games will be staged between April 4-15 in the east coast city of Gold Coast. African News Agency