PRETORIA - In a scathing judgment, the North Gauteng High Court on Friday set aside Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane's Bankorp/CIEX report and awarded costs to Absa and the South African Reserve Bank (SARB). It also ordered Mkhwebane to pay 15 percent of the costs of the South African Reserve Bank (SARB) in her personal capacity. Mkhwebane's report, released in June, ordered Absa to pay R1,1-billion for an apartheid-era bailout provided to its predecessor Bankorp by the Reserve Bank. Her findings were contested by the Reserve Bank and Absa, which applied to the court for the report to be set aside and to declare that Mkhwebane had abused her powers. The matter was heard in front of a full bench of judges. The quicker Mkhwebane is removed as Public Protector the better. She was thrown in the deep end and clearly can’t swim. Absa senior counsel Gilbert Marcus argued that the Public Protector, by refusing to meet with Absa prior to the release of her report, had failed to adhere to procedural fairness. He told the court she had been prepared to meet with the Black First Land First (BLF) organisation, which was antagonistic towards Absa and wanted the bank to repay the debt. Mkhwebane’s lawyer Paul Kennedy SC said that if the court granted the declaratory order, it would create grounds for the Public Protector to lose her job. “Mkhwebane’s lawyer Paul Kennedy SC had argued that if the court granted the declaratory order it would prepare the ground for the Public Protector to lose her job.”
		
		So she should. https://t.co/VVovFLH12Z “The court is being used to prepare the ground for the removal of the person who occupies the office of the Public Protector,” Kennedy said. Among the findings of the court were that the public protector's remedial action was unlawful and that "there is a reasonable apprehension of bias... "It is clear that he public protector unlawfully, ultra vires (beyond her legal power and authority), and breached several provisions of the Promotion of Administrative Justice Act (Paja). "In these circumstances, it would be untenable to remit the Report to the Public Protector." The court also found that "the Public Protector does not fully understand her constitutional duty to be impartial and to perform her functions without fear, favour or prejudice. "She failed to disclose in her report that she had a meeting with the Presidency on 25 April 2017 and again on 7 June 2017. "We have to conclude that this is a case where a simple punitive costs order against her in her official capacity will not be appropriate. "This is a case where we should go further and order the Public Protector to pay at least a certain percentage of the costs incurred on a punitive scale." The court, as a result, ordered Mkhwebane to pay 15 percent of the SARB's costs in her personal capacity. - additional reporting by News24 Promotion of Administrative Justice Act (Paja) eNCA