JOHANNESBURG - President Cyril Ramaphosa on Thursday battled against business leaders at the golf course with an aim to raise funds for charities at the annual Presidential Golf Challenge hosted at Atlantic Beach Golf Estate, Melkbosstrand, Western Cape. Ramaphosa took a break from golf and told media that he was taking his time to settle into his new role as the country's first citizen. He was elected as South Africa's president on February 15, 2018. "One high has been the way ordinary people have been saying 'send us too', there is a lot you can do. I thought it would be a low if I missed my ball (but) we will take the lows in our stride but now we must engage everyone to contribute to the development of our country," he said. The annual challenge is hosted by the Ministry for the Public Service and Administration in partnership with the private sector as part of a programme of activities concentrated around the State of the Nation Address. It raises funds for charities designated by the sitting president and provides an opportunity for networking between government and partners in other sectors of society. Business leaders apparenlty paid a whopping R50.000 each to play golf with Ramaphosa. WATCH: Ramaphosa swings into action on the golf course "The 2018 Presidential Golf Challenge proceeds will be donated to the Cyril Ramaphosa Foundation, which will in turn distribute funds to deserving charities," said the Presidency in a statement released by Ramaphosa's acting spokesperson, Tyrone Seale. "President Ramaphosa welcomes private sector funding for charities and commends companies and individuals for finding the means in tough economic times to demonstrate generosity and goodwill in support of needy communities and organisations."' #Prez #Ramaphosa will play all 18 holes at this #Presidential Golf Challenge, unlike his predecessor Jacob Zuma who preferred to only play two. CR is a keen golfer and big business has paid R50 000 per person apparently to play with him for charity today. @eNCA pic.twitter.com/Zt3ByZTM9B The Presidency said the event will afford Ramaphosa "an opportunity to emphasise the role of business in economic development and to appreciate the positive impact of corporate social investment on poverty alleviation and the transformation of South African society". -Additional reporting ANA eNCA