DURBAN – Bidvest Wits defeated Golden Arrows 2-1 in a Premiership fixture played at the Princess Magogo Stadium, in Durban, on Saturday afternoon. Defending league champions Wits have had a torrid time of it this season, but the win over Arrows means the Johannesburg team continue their gradual move up the league standings. In contrast, Arrows, after a good start to the season, are now slowly being sucked into the relegation quagmire. #AbsaPrem - RESULT:
		First half goals from Mhango and Majoro were enough to earn Bidvest Wits the win over Golden Arrows. pic.twitter.com/8k4tCpNPC4 Wits were up for the challenge early on, with Gabadinho Mhango looking keen right from the opening whistle. The Malawian attacker was enthusiastic in his play and always provided a threat to the Arrows defence. It was, therefore, no surprise when Sifiso Hlanti floated a cross into the near post in the 29th minute that it was Mhango who sneaked in to head the Clever Boys into a 1-0 lead. Ten minutes later, it was 2-0 when Hlanti again crossed a dangerous ball into the Arrows penalty area, but this time it hit the hand of Trevor Mathiane, and referee Victor Gomes pointed to the spot. Lehlohonolo Majoro stepped up to convert the spot-kick – and Wits trotted off with a rather comfortable advantage at the break. READ: Free State Stars outshine Bidvest Wits Arrows, though, had their moments in the opening 45 minutes, with Sandile Zuke and Yussuf Jappie particularly industrious in open play. There was also an opportunity for striker Lerato Lamola when he found space, but his attempt was dealt with by Wits goalkeeper Darren Keet. The Durban side then came out with a lot more purpose in the second half, with Jappie firing over the bar shortly after the re-start. On the hour mark, Arrows’ pressure was rewarded with a penalty when Wits defender Buhle Mkhwanazi fouled Lamola – but Knox Mutizwa blasted his penalty kick against the upright. A few minutes later, Lamola again found himself in space to try to pull one back, but he was denied by a great tackle from Hlanti. We have been beaten by The Clever Boys at Princess Magogo stadium in a game that had some controversial decisions. read the full story https://t.co/IvYrusAzCo pic.twitter.com/btpPhJ0ziA In the 75th minute, Gomes awarded his third penalty of the day after Wits’ Nazeer Allie brought down Velemseni Ndwandwe in the box – and this time Arrows’ Limbikani  Mzava made no mistake by smashing the spot-kick into the back of the net. With Arrows back in it at 2-1, they pressed forward in search of an equaliser, but Wits hung on to register a narrow victory. Moments before the close, Gomes red-carded Wits' James Keene and Arrows' Jabulani Shongwe after a scuffle broke out among the players. African News Agency