JOHANNESBURG - The top six leaders of the ANC will be meeting on Saturday to discuss the exit of President Jacob Zuma and the transition process. eNCA understands statements made by ANC treasurer general, Paul Mashatile will also be discussed. Zuma, however, is not present at the meeting. On Thursday, Mashatile said the top six want President Zuma to step down to allow new leadership to take the reins. But Mashatile confirmed that the president refused to resign when they met with him last Sunday, even though they spent a lot of time trying to persuade him. "President Zuma basically said to us, 'I'm not going anywhere. I’m not doing that. You can report back to you National Working Committee and the NEC that I said I am not resigning.'" REVEALED: What's holding up the Zuma exit talks On Friday,  President Jacob Zuma's wife Thobeka Madiba-Zuma suggested in a post on social media platform, Instagram that he will not go down without a fight. Referring to Zuma as her "everyday crush", the first lady said: "Umsholozi did not join the ANC in 1991, jumped ship nor hip hopped between the struggle and wealth accumulation. "He left his home at a tender age to fight apartheid. He was prepared to pay the ultimate price. He will finish what he started because he does not take orders beyond the Atlantic Ocean." Madiba-Zuma posted the message with the hashtag #mattersofthestomach. She uses Zulu in parts of her post which, translated, suggests "things are about to get ugly" and "don't fight someone who is not fighting with you." READ: Things are about to get ugly: Zuma's wife Pressure has been mounting for Zuma to step down, notably after the State of the Nation Address (SONA) was postponed this week. On Saturday, the SACP said Zuma should leave "as soon as possible." On Wednesday, Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa released a statement saying he has had "constructive" discussions with Zuma. Ramaphosa said he was aware that the uncertainty surrounding the future of Zuma was a cause of concern for many South Africans. "This is understandable. However, I am certain that the process we have now embarked on will achieve an outcome that not only addresses these concerns but unites our people around the tasks that all of us must necessarily undertake to build our country. We will be able to communicate further on President Zuma’s position as President of the Republic once we have finalised all pertinent matters," Ramaphosa said. We must unify our country, society & the ANC #ANC106 eNCA