PRETORIA - SuperSport United got back on to the winning trail by beating Bloemfontein Celtic 4-2 in an action-packed Absa Premiership match played at the Lucas Moripe Stadium in Atteridgeville, near Pretoria, on Saturday afternoon. Shout out to @posmanmodiba for winning the man of the match award #AbsaPrem pic.twitter.com/sK4qt3yRKO Celtic were the more positive side early on and were helped by a defensive slip by Clayton Daniels in the 18th minute, which allowed Jacky Motshegwa to capitalise in scoring past SuperSport goalkeeper Reyaad Pieterse. Just 13 minutes later, much against the run of play, SuperSport managed to get themselves back on to level terms, this time courtesy of a defensive clearance effort, which allowed midfielder Mogakolodi Ngele to fire home past the Celtic goalkeeper and captain Amour Tignyemb. Breaking:
		
		SuperSport United have signed Mogakolodi Ngele on loan from Mamelodi Sundowns for the rest of the season. pic.twitter.com/uwVRgSLmz6 In the 39th minute, SuperSport took the lead through yet another defensive lapse by the men in green-and-white, with new signing Evans Rusike quick to pounce on a loose ball, which he slotted home past the Celtic goalkeeper. This was the Zimbabwean's first goal for his new club after two outings. SuperSport seemed to be growing in confidence as the match progressed until young Denwin Farmer gave a loose pass in the home team's final third of the field, and former Platinum Stars goal-getter Ndumiso Mabena needed no second invitation as he seized the opportunity to score in the 60th minute. #AbsaPrem - RESULT:
		SuperSport United beat Bloemfontein Celtic 4-2 in a six goal thriller at the Lucas Moripe Stadium. pic.twitter.com/iLo8fRVL5D The hosts played with three players upfront for the final third of the match as they pressed for all three points, and they were rewarded in the 74th minute when defender Aubrey Modiba headed home from a superb defence-splitting cross from substitute Teboho Mokoena. Mokoena, who came on for Ngele in the 61st minute, got on to the score-sheet himself in the 83rd minute, when he finished off a SuperSport attack with a left-footed shot from just outside the box. SuperSport, who have struggled for league points since finishing as runners-up in the CAF Confederation Cup, move to 24 points from 20 games. They will make the trip to Bloemfontein to take on the very same Celtic in Nedbank Cup action next Sunday. Celtic, who missed out on a chance of working their way back into the top eight on the league table, would have fancied their chance of ending their four-match winless streak, remain on 25 points from 20 games. After a superb start to the league campaign, Celtic have now just one win in their last eight games. African News Agency