JOHANNESBURG - The makers of the film Inxeba (The Wound) is taking the Film and Publication Board (FPB) Appeals Tribunal to court, for reclassifying the film to X18 making it impossible for it to be screened commercially. While the film raked in awards internationally and made it onto a longlist for the Best Foreign Language Film Academy Award, it has been marred by controversy locally. Widespread protests and threats led to cancellations of screenings at a number of cinemas. The film tells the story of a young, gay Xhosa man who goes to the Eastern Cape for traditional circumcision. The FPB Appeal Tribunal overturned the FBS's original classification rating of 16LS and only provided reasons for the reclassification recently. The tribunal was chaired by Christopher Mamathuntsha and included Professor AS Magwaza, Nonkoliso Sigcau, Manko Buffel, Lutendo Malada, Sizwe Snail Ka Mtuze, and Lihle Mapipa Ndlovu. WATCH: Inxeba, The Wound co-writer speaks out Both the Traditional Leaders' Congress (Contralesa) Gauteng and The Man and Boy Foundation requested the tribunal change the rating to 18, due to perceived cultural insensitivity towards the tradition of Xhosa initiation. However, the Tribunal's reclassification of X18 means the movie can only be distributed from designated adult premises like sex shops. Among the reasons for the reclassification, were the Appeals Tribunal’s finding that there was no “scientific, educational and artistic value” in the film. “Since there was no explanation on how the Tribunal reached this specific conclusion, it’s not easy to respond to it,” said the film's producer Cait Pansegrouw. “What I can say is that it would be difficult to argue that our film lacks artistic value, given that it has won 20 awards of excellence internationally and within South Africa. Harvard University, Oxford University, various South African tertiary institutions, and local movements such as Equal Education also have showed interest in including Inxeba in their curriculums and programmes.” Inxeba's producers, through their lawyers Webber Wentzel, served the Tribunal with a lawsuit at the weekend. READ:  'Inxeba' embarrassing: leader of traditional religion institute “We find this ruling sinister, as the ‘X18’ rating was not requested by the appellants, and it cannot be reasonably justified by anyone who has seen the film,” said Helen Kuun, MD of Indigenous Film Distribution. “It is also worrying that the Appeals Tribunal reached this decision without giving the distributor and producer a proper opportunity to make submissions on the matter. This is plainly unlawful.” Kuun said the producers and their legal team are awaiting a response to their urgent interdict by Tuesday and plan to be in court the next week. In the meantime, the producers and distributor asked members of the public not to watch, circulate or buy pirated copies of the film. “Please do not support piracy,” says Kuun. “We are working hard to find legal avenues to make the film available to all those who want to see it. Given the current rating of the film, it is also illegal and a criminal offence currently to view it anywhere, on any platform, either free or paid for. We are very encouraged by the support and enthusiasm of fans, but we urge patience while the legal process unfolds.” eNCA