JOHANNESBURG - Opposition parties are to meet on Friday to discuss how to respond to the announcement that President Jacob Zuma will deliver the State of the Nation address on Thursday next week. NCOP Deputy Tau: ANC is on record as saying the leadership is discussing the President of the Republic but as far as we are concerned we believe President Will be delivering #SONA2018 . There’s no need to panic there. It’s an ANC matter. #Sona2018 The answer is: no. We are not going to have a special sitting before we receive the Sona address, says Mbete. She says the Powers and Privileges Act allows for the security forces to act in the chamber in specific circumstances. The DA had called for a postponement of the address until Zuma is replaced, while the EFF has called for a motion of no confidence in Zuma to be held before SONA. But Parliament's presiding officers said on Thursday there was no valid reason to convene a special sitting ahead of the address. Tsenoli: to call a special sitting before #SONA2018 is unlikely to happen. No, so much has already been prepared, we would have to really be convinced. It would have to be unprecedented. My personal opinion. The others can clobber me if they want. “ UDM leader Bantu Holomisa says he fully concurs with the EFF call. He has invited opposition parties to meet on Friday to discuss their response. DA calling for SONA to be postponed, now UDM leader Bantu Holomisa calling on all opposition parties to meet on 2 February. EFF he says also proposing a Motion of no Confidence ahead of SONA on Feb 8. #SONA2018 pic.twitter.com/76mbxV5R7l The EFF's Dali Mpofu said no opposition could allow Zuma to address the nation. READ: Whoever is president will deliver SONA: Modise Zuma had been "disowned" by his own party but the ANC top six were procrastinating about removing him, Mpofu said. "Why must we humiliate South Africans by making them listen to someone who's facing criminal charges. We will not allow that, it’s not going to happen,” he said. The ANC's top six apparently have until Sunday to take a decision on Zuma. They have been mandated to manage the transition from his rule to that of new party president Cyril Ramaphosa. eNCA