POLOKWANE – Baroka FC put a further dent into Cape Town City's league title aspirations, as they beat the Mother City side 2-0 in an Absa Premiership match played at the Peter Mokaba Stadium in Polokwane on Tuesday evening. Mpho Kgaswane's left-footed power shot from a free-kick situation in the 35th minute, left City goalkeeper Shuaib Walters grasping fresh air as the ball rattled its way into the back of the visitors’ goal-net. Baroka have now lost just one of their last six games in all competitions, and tonight’s win moves them up to 6th place.
		
		Amazing turnaround after they battled relegation last season. With City pushing hard for the equaliser, they paid the ultimate price in getting caught out by a Baroka counter attack with the ball cut back from the left side of the park, for Kgaswane to put the result beyond doubt in the 88th minute. For City, the result was a hat-trick but not the kind they wanted. The loss follows off the back of consecutive league defeats against Kaizer Chiefs and Bidvest Wits, which has thrown the Citizens, as City are known, off the pace of a serious title challenge. READ: Platinum Stars pay the penalty against 10-man Baroka What the men in blue did manage to do well was to isolate Baroka's inspirational Gift Motupa and Zimbabwean Talent Chawapiwa. The second half was almost all City with Baroka defending their lead and happy to work raids off counter attack situations, but despite the efforts of speedy Craig Martin and ever-attacking Shane Roberts, it just wasn't City's night. FT: Baroka 2-0 City
		
		Disappointing result after complete dominance for 90 minutes...We have to pick ourselves up and go again this Friday at home! #iamCityFC #AbsaPrem pic.twitter.com/XvouWs3wVW They remain on 31 points from 23 games, and the Cape Town side will have much soul searching to do before they host Chippa United in their next league fixture on Friday. Baroka, who hit a purple patch as log-leaders in the opening third of the season, had made football headlines for the wrong reasons in recent times. Earlier on Tuesday, it was announced that their former captain Olaleng Shaku and goalkeeper Oscarine Masuluke of 2017 wonder-goal-bicycle kick goal fame against Orlando Pirates, have been released from the club. Coach  Kgoloko Thobejane remains suspended by the club, but credit must go to stand-in coach MacDonald Makhubedu for delivering the goods as Baroka moved to 31 points from 23 matches. They will travel to Johannesburg to take on a revived Bidvest Wits side on Friday. African News Agency