DURBAN  – The upcoming MiWayLife Durban Ultra Triathlon will give Gauteng-based triathlete Casper Moodie the opportunity to right the wrongs of 2017 when he was hampered by injury, at this year’s edition of the Durban Beachfront event on Sunday, March 4. The 29-year-old finished 15th overall at the 2017 Durban Ultra after he powered through the swim and the ride only to come unstuck during the run. It was a difficult run for him as he was later to find out he was hindered by a serious injury. “I was happy with how last year’s race went even though I was hoping to finish in the top 10 and get on the podium in my age group,” the Argon/Zoggs athlete mentioned. “I think after the bike leg I was in seventh overall but my run was not good. I went for scans after the event and I found out I had a stress fracture in my leg. This put me out for about seven weeks.” It has been a busy road to recovery for Moodie but he is training hard and looking forward to getting back to a race that he has grown to love. “I think that the Durban Ultra is one of my favourite events due to the nature of the route. “The swim is one of the best in the business, especially if the conditions are good. “The ride is phenomenal and I love the fact that there is a full road closure which makes it that much better and enjoyable. “For me the run is the toughest element because if you are a bit off on the day then the laps can really take it out of you. But on the other hand, if you are feeling good then it can be a great run,” he added. The High Performance Centre trained athlete has spent a lot of time honing his swim, bike, run skills despite having to recover from a serious injury. “I think I used to be a stronger runner than anything until I was injured,” he explained. “Since then I have had to work really hard on getting my run back to a top level, and I think that I have got it back to a place I am happy with. “When I put everything together I am happy with where I am going into the Durban Ultra and I am looking to finish in the top ten this year and get on the podium in my age group.” African News Agency