CAPE TOWN - Whatever tickles your fancy, be sure to have fun at the movies this weekend. There is an exciting string of movies opening, ranging from drama and action, to comedy and even something for the whole family. 24 Hours to Live Fasten your seatbelts and be prepared to go on a thrilling ride in this American action thriller! Ethan Hawkes gives an incredible performance as a former assassin who is temporarily brought back to life by his employer after being killed on the job. Fighting to survive, this second chance at life also gives him a shot at redemption. Call Me By Your Name Directed by Luca Guadagnino, the story follows the life of a young American boy, Elio Perman, who comes to Northern Italy with his family for the summer of 1983. He crosses paths with a 24-year-old grad student, Oliver, employed as an intern to Elio’s father who specializes in cultural studies. It’s not long before Oliver and Elio embark on a summer vacation that will change their lives forever. Three Billboards, Outside Ebbing Missouri Three Billboards, Outside Ebbing Missouri is an incredible story of a mother’s bold move to help draw attention to her daughter’s unsolved murder. When the town’s police don’t move fast enough to solve the case, Mildred Hayes played by Frances McDormand rents three billboards leading into her town. When a young officer with violent tendencies gets involved, the battle between mom and the law is aggravated. Lady Bird In Lady Bird, there’s the struggle of an opinionated teen and her strong-willed mom during her senior year of high school. Christine “Lady Bird” McPearson (played by Saoirse Ronan) tries to escape her small town by opting for college in New York. Along the journey, it seems, the pair are like two peas in a pod. Loving Vincent Now here’s something new -- it’s the world’s first fully oil-painted feature film!! Loving Vincent is an animated biography drama about the life of painter Vincent Van Gogh. The movie is brought to life with his artwork, illustrating the complexities of his personality, and in particular his controversial death. eNCA