JOHANNESBURG - The Ahmed Kathrada Foundation, in a media release, praised President Ramaphosa's maiden State of the Nation Address (SONA), but warned that his words must be followed by "decisive action". The foundation welcomed the fact that dignity had been restored to Parliament, with no minimal interruptions, and no walkouts or evictions. The foundation’s executive director, Neeshan Balton praised President Ramaphosa’s commitment to “ethical behaviour and ethical leadership”, but said  “this must be followed up with decisive action at all tiers of government against officials, politicians, business people, individuals and families who are corrupt and embroiled in the state capture project." #SONA2018: Ramaphosa: "Now is the time to lend a hand. Now is the time for each of us to say ‘send me’. Now is the time for all of us to work together." Courtesy #DStv403 pic.twitter.com/PvQ4Xsze2s The foundation acknowledged Ramaphosa's reassurance that law enforcement agencies would continue their work countering state capture and corruption, "free from outside interference", simultaneously with the Zondo commission of inquiry into state capture. IN QUOTES: promises Ramaphosa made in his SONA speech It also welcomed the president's commitment to restoring fiscal rectitude at SARS. It accepted that "rebuilding (institutions) takes a long time" It urged the president "to ensure that skilled and honest people are part of his Cabinet and that those who are ineffective or implicated in state capture are axed and brought to book." It noted that "his speech today highlighted that systematic racial inequality still exists and must be tackled, and that transformation be prioritised. He also emphasised the need to unite South Africans across all barriers around a common vision and build a sense of nationhood, while at the same time celebrating our diversity.” The foundation urged President Ramaphosa to act swiftly so that the present spirt of optimism did not dim. READ: Cloudy future awaits Jacob Zuma It concluded, “We applaud President Ramaphosa for setting out a vision for change and renewal, and we wish him the courage, tenacity and decisiveness to take the decisions needed to move the country forward.” eNCA