DURBAN - The DA must reposition itself to attract voters because their easy target, President Jacob Zuma will not be around in 2019, the party's leader Mmusi Maimane admitted on Saturday. He was addressing the DA’s KwaZulu-Natal Congress in Durban, where Zwakele Mncwango was re-elected as the party’s provincial leader. Maimane told the cheerful crowd at the Olive Convention Centre that the political playing field has changed. WATCH: Opposition parties outline their game plan "No longer can we satisfy ourselves by merely taking on the man from Nkandla, who has so harmed our country this past decade, and who gave us an easy target to aim to." He said the DA must negotiate this new political playground, with Cyril Ramaphosa at the helm of the ANC. Maimane: Ramaphosa has been part of the problem now how is he going to bring about change, #DAkzn Maimane thanked the party's outgoing provincial leadership for growing the DA from 150 councillors in 2011 to 201 councillors in 2016. He said the DA is proud to be the official opposition in KZN, with representatives in deep rural areas like Umkhanyakude. "I've never been more proud of the fact that it's in this province where you've shown an incredible amount of work, having become the official opposition in this province. Forward, DA forward!" We are not interested in only coloured people, or only white people, or only black people, or only Indian people.
		
		We are a party for coloured South Africans and black South Africans and white South Africans and Indian South Africans. - @MmusiMaimane #DAKZNCongress Francois Rodgers is the DA’s new Chairperson in KZN, with Mergan Chetty the deputy leader. Zwakele Mncwango was re-elected as the party’s provincial leader. .@DA_KZN leader, @Zwakelem has retained his position as provincial leader.
		
		Taking this opportunity to congratulate him, as well as the Deputy Leader: Morgan Chetty, Provincial Chair: Francios Rodgers, Deputy Chair: Hlengiwe Shozi, and 2nd Chair: Shehana Bibi. #DAKZNCongress pic.twitter.com/dDBWvuQ2fI He said their main objective is to shrink the ANC’s support to below 50 percent in the province. Mcwango committed himself to working hard to unite the DA in KZN, saying this is the key to unseating the ANC in 2019. eNCA