JOHANNESBURG - Images surfaced on social media on Tuesday of Zimbabwe’s national rugby team who were seemingly forced to sleep on the streets of Tunisia during preparations for their Rugby World Cup qualifiers. This is true - I have received a report from a father of OBE of the players. Simply unacceptable. What is our government doing about this? https://t.co/BZhiLC0z7Q https://t.co/BZhiLC0z7Q Reports suggest The Sables, coached by former Springbok boss Peter De Villiers, had their passports confiscated at the border. READ: Peter de Villiers says he was blacklisted by SARU Former Zimbabwean Minister for Sports David Coltart said in a Facebook post, “On arrival, they spent 6 hours held up at the border and the authorities have taken their passports claiming they need to pay for visas which they can’t pay as they don’t have funds.” Our national rugby team the Sables are being treated in the most appalling way in Tunisia. They have been forced to sleep on the streets as the accommodation they were provided with is disgusting.
		
		On arrival they... https://t.co/GmrCuqG1vV Coltart went on to say, “Our national rugby team the Sables are being treated in the most appalling way in Tunisia.” “They have been forced to sleep on the streets as the accommodation they were provided with is disgusting.” “Most team members only had two hours sleep last night. The ZRU board appear to have done nothing about the situation along with the SRC. Coach Peter De Villiers and the managers are on the street with the players.” Zim Rugby team opts to sleep on the streets in protest to Tunisia's conditions. When they come here we take them to Mieckles... pic.twitter.com/cDMpetEzRC Zimbabwe’s Sables Rugby Team stuck in Tunisia...-- Why have we no respect and appreciation for our sportsmen and artists???
		They go out there flying the Zim flag high and get very little love at home...we can do better!@zimbabwerugby @ZimbabweSables @edmnangagwa pic.twitter.com/TmPY0aQzoW And we were "supposed" to support Tunisia in the world cup coz they are African, meanwhile our Zim brothers were made to sleep on the street just to make their trip uncomfortable before their rugby game. Hakuna embassy yedu here ikoko? On the streets here amana -- So the Ministry of Sports in Zim has basically failed. This is the treatment the National Rugby team is receiving in #Tunisia.
		
		We can do better. Yidoti le!! pic.twitter.com/HeUN7DbbBF eNCA