DURBAN -The hilarious cast of South Africa’s highest grossing film of 2017, ‘Keeping up with the Kandasamys’, will be returning to the big screen. A sequel entitled ‘Kandasamys: The Wedding’ is expected to make its cinema debut over the Easter weekend in 2019. Speaking to eNCA’s Rianté Naidoo, the film’s writer and director, Jayan Moodley, said one of the key factors when deciding to write a sequel was the overwhelming love and support for the film. “People started owning the film and growing an attachment to the characters. It was just very special,” Moodley said. “We were constantly getting messages about what needs to be in the sequel and we finally succumbed!” What viewers can expect The first movie was themed 'A love letter to Chatsworth'. It highlighted themes of love, friendship, as well as the unique and special elements of life in Indian communities. However, this time around, it's a tribute to mothers. The movie will be set a few years on from where it left off – with Jennifer Kandasamy (Jailoshini Naidoo) and Shanti Naidoo (Maeshni Naicker) on good terms after rekindling their once strained friendship. Their children, Jodi Kandasamy (Mishqah Parthiephal) and Prishen Naidoo (Madhushan Singh), are to be married, and both mothers delve into wedding planning – with Jennifer obviously holding the reins firmly. “It’s the week before the big day and emotions are heightened,” African Lotus Productions said. “It’s colourful and loud and vibrant and spirited as everyone gets into the wedding week mood.” Jodi and Prishen’s love is tested once more by those who love them the most – their mothers – and viewers will witness the journey of Jennifer and Shanti as they learn to realise that the source of their happiness lies in the happiness of their children. The popular cast, including the much loved Aya (Miriam Bassa) and comical Arsevan (Rushil Juglall), will all be returning for the sequel. Moodley said “Aya and Arsevan are firm favourites and we can confirm that she is back with some wicked lines.” As for whether Arsevan will have any lines this time around, Moodley added that “You'll just have to wait and see!” Production and casting Pre-production on the movie has already begun and shooting will commence in September. The movie “is still very much set in the heart of Chatsworth and we are adding some beautiful new locations in and around Durban,” Moodley said. “Our province has so much to show off. This is truly a proudly KZN film,” she added. The majority of the film’s cast and crew will comprise of people from Durban and surrounding areas and the film has been backed by the Department of Trade and Industry. The department’s Nelly Molokoane said government acknowledged the film and television industry’s contribution to stimulating the country’s economic growth, job creation, and its role in facilitating dialogue for nation-building. The film grossed R16-million in its first 12 weeks and was flighted at the Toronto International Film Festival last year. eNCA