SPONSORED JOHANNESBURG - If it’s gritty, unapologetic, ground-breaking, bold and, more importantly, addictive, chances are it’s the work of HBO. The network that claims to have “no limits” is responsible for smash hits and award show favourites such as Game of Thrones, Big Little Lies, Veep, True Detective, and Girls, all of which are available on Showmax.
	
	Here are 13 of the hottest HBO shows, which are only available to stream on Showmax in South Africa
	
	1. Game of Thrones, S1-S7 Filming for the eighth and final season of the show that has won more Emmy Awards than any other primetime scripted show in history has officially wrapped, marking the end of an era for many. Binge-watch the first seven series in anticipation of next year’s release of season 8. 2. Ballers, S1-S3 Who doesn’t love to watch Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson when he’s not in the wrestling ring. According to The Boston Globe, the show’s “strong cast and sharp writing prove to be a winning combination”. 3. Insecure, S1-S2 Last year, the hilarious series was selected as one of the American Film Institute’s top 10 Television Programs of the Year while it’s lead actress and co-creator Issa Rae became a critic favourite. If you haven’t watch it yet, stream it now on Showmax. This “hella great” show is highly addictive. 4. Big Little Lies Based on the bestselling novel by Liane Moriarty, the drama series’ cast reads like a Best Actress nominee list: Reese Witherspoon, Nicole Kidman, Shailene Woodley, Zoe Kravitz, Laura Dern. It also features a killer soundtrack. 5. Veep, S1-S6 With some of the best insults ever hurled on a show, more than 30 major awards in the bag and one of the funniest woman on TV in the lead role, Veep is a must-watch for fans of ground-breaking comedy. 6. Silicon Valley, S1-S4 Created by Mike Judge, who gave us the cult hit Office Space in 1996 (and Beavis and Butt-head), the comedy series pokes fun at the tech hub, often basing character on real-life tech whizzes such as Steve Jobs, Mark Zuckerberg and Bill Gates. 7. The Night of “A masterful HBO drama that’s almost too painful to watch” is how The Guardian describes this critically acclaimed eight-part miniseries. It tells the story of a naïve student who’s been accused of murder and can’t remember a thing about the night it happened. 8. Banshee, S1-S4 This is definitely one for those fans of gruesome, action-packed shows. In fact, Collider wrote, “Banshee’s story is full of twists and unexpected connections, as well as its tell-tale brutal violence. In a sick streak of creativity, the show continues to find new, gruesome ways to kill people.” 9. True Detective, S1-S2 Starring Hollywood heavyweights such as Matthew McConaughey, Woody Harrelson, Vince Vaughn and Michelle Monaghan, the anthology crime series was inspired by shows such as The Wire, The Sopranos, and Deadwood. 10. Girls, S1-S6 The controversial show has featured some of the most jaw-dropping moments in series history, cemented Lena Dunham’s place in showbiz and started many a conversation about gender equality, sexuality and coming of age. 11. Jinx: The Life and Deaths of Robert Durst With a 95% rating on Rotten Tomatoes, this intriguing documentary investigates the unsolved disappearance of real estate mogul Robert Durst’s wife as well as two other murders he’s been accused of. Robert has since been reported as saying he regrets doing the show, which ultimately led to his arrest in 2015. 12. The Pacific Produced by Steven Spielberg and Tom Hanks, this 10-part miniseries won eight Emmy Awards. It is the most expensive miniseries ever to be produced, featuring spectacularly re-created battle scene and authentic sets that bring the real-life battle experiences of three Marines to life. 13. True Blood, S1-S7 Described as being “a show with plenty of bite” by New York Daily News, True Blood features an all-star cast and twice Grammy-nominated soundtrack. It quickly gained a large following around the world and became one of the top 10 most watched in HBO’s history.
	
	To enjoy the best shows to come out of HBO, sign up to Showmax now. It’s free for DStv Premium customers, R49 for DStv Compact subscribers and there’s a 14-day trial for new subscribers. Sign up now.