JOHANNESBURG - SA Rugby president, Mark Alexander, on Wednesday congratulated Michael Oosthuyzen on his selection as president of the SA Deaf Rugby Association (Sadru), an associate member of the South African Rugby Union. Oosthuyzen (of Gauteng), who served as assistant coach of the national deaf team in the historic two-Test series against current world champions, Wales, in August 2015, was unanimously elected the new president of Sadru. Amos Mashele (also of Gauteng) was elected vice-president. Part of our WP Deaf contingent with current President Michael Oosthuyzen.
		
		Deaf Rugby is growing! pic.twitter.com/v2JORVaXsp Oosthuyzen and Tim Stones (former President of Sadru, from Border) have been nominated to serve on the World Deaf Rugby committee as the contact persons for South Africa Deaf Rugby, tasked with discussing matters relating to Sadru at international level, and to liaise with World Deaf Rugby where necessary. “Congratulations to Michael and his board with their selections,” said Alexander. “We hope their term of office is a productive one and that we can continue with our good working relationship between SA Rugby and Sadru, an associate member of us.” Oosthuysen said Sadru was delighted to continue its proud relationship with SA Rugby as an associate member, and they hope to improve on relations going forward. “Our AGM was an opportunity to discuss the progress made over the past year, as well as to affirm the vision of Sadru for the next 12 months, during which several new initiatives are envisaged, with transformation and development the key markers that will define this period of growth and renewal,” said Oosthuysen. SA Deaf Rugby currently enjoys a world ranking of third, behind Wales and England, and the challenge going forward will be to improve on this ranking. “Several national deaf rugby unions already expressed a desire to take on the SA Deaf national team in Test matches and that will help us to fulfil Sadru's dream of topping the world rankings in due course. To help facilitate this dream, SA Deaf Rugby is currently developing an idea to host an inter-provincial Deaf Rugby tournament,” Oosthuysen indicated. African News Agency