JOHANNESBURG - Ajax Cape Town is determined to fight their case with everything they have. As the start of the Absa Premiership draws closer, Ajax CEO Ari Efstathiou on Tuesday held a media-conference speaking on the next steps the Cape club will take in the tedious Tendai Ndoro eligibility saga, that may, or may not, have relegated Ajax Cape Town. READ: Ajax CT and Tendai Ndoro part ways The PSL Executive Committee last week decided to apply for leave to appeal Judge Denise Fisher’s ruling which effectively reinstated Ajax to the Absa Premiership. Efstathiou said, “We will oppose the application for leave to appeal but we are concerned that the application is unlikely to be heard before the new season. The court's recess period continues until Monday the 30 July and even though the deputy judge president has advised that Judge Fisher may be back by the 23rd we feel that this will not happen, but Ajax will oppose it.” READ: Board of Governors give PSL green light to appeal Ajax ruling "If the leave is granted Ajax will ask Judge Fisher to order that the initial order is effective. In other words, if she grants the NSL leave, we will ask her to grant us a section 18.” PSL chairman Irvin Khoza said last week that the league will start on 4 August but it’s hard to see how this will happen with Ajax using every legal means at their disposal to fight their points deduction and subsequent relegation. CEO Ari Efstathiou:” In closing, we are there to help find solutions. We have gone to FIFA, the PSL’s Chairman, to the Exco, the BoG.
		
		“We now ask for a return in favour to find a swift and positive solution to this matter.” #WeAreAjaxCT ---- “Ajax will seek relief to interdict the commencement of the new Premier League until either, the PSL’s application for leave to appeal and Ajax’s section 18 can be heard, and/or if the leave is granted and if section 18 is dismissed until an expedited appeal is heard, in other words we have no option but to throw everything at it. It’s regrettable and we understand it puts SA soccer into chaos but we have no alternative”, concluded the CEO. eNCA