JOHANNESBURG - Greenpeace Africa has slammed Eskom's financial results, saying it is "putting South Africa in jeopardy." Eskom chairman Jabu Mabuza released the power utility's 2017/18 financial results on Monday. Mabuza said the state-owned enterprise was committed to continuing to root out corruption from within its ranks. He announced that irregular expenditure of R19-billion since 2012 had been uncovered at the power utility. Eskom announced that the amount owed to it by municipalities had increased by 44% to R4.2bn. The SOE announced a net loss after tax of R2.3-billion, down from a R0.9-billion profit in 2017. According to Greenpeace Africa: "Eskom's financials indicate that the sustainability of the current utility business model is divorced from reality." "Unless there are urgent interventions, this will continue to be Eskom's way of doing business for the foreseeable future leading to ever increasing electricity tariffs and spiralling debt levels. Eskom's complete reliance on coal is one of the key reasons driving Eskom's debt and the urgency of a just transition away from dirty, costly coal must not be ignored," says the lobby group. READ: No bonuses for Eskom employees in 2018 Eskom CEO, Phakamani Hadebe, said that it was not normal for the SOE to have had ten CEO's and six boards in the last ten years. Hadebe said Eskom's revenue levels remain inadequate and tariff increases awarded by the national regulator are not expected to improve the situation. But he said the challenges facing Eskom were not insurmountable. "One of our biggest tasks is rooting out the corrupt behaviour of some of our own employees, which has threatened Eskom’s financial viability, another real challenge that we are managing," he said in a statement accompanying the company's results for the year ended March 31. Despite satisfactory progress being maintained on Eskom's new build programme, as well as solid operational performance for the current financial year, the company continued to face significant challenges in the short to medium term, he said. "Revenue levels remain unsatisfactory, and the 5.23 percent increase for the 2018/19 financial year further compounds the impact of the 2.2 percent tariff increase awarded in the 2017/18 financial year and is therefore not expected to lead to much improvement," he said. "Levels of arrear debt, especially from municipalities, remain unacceptably high," Hadebe added, saying Eskom's focus in the short term would remain on cost efficiencies to support financial sustainability. The utility was undertaking a strategy review, expected to be completed by September 2018, to ensure that it had an integrated strategy that addressed its current challenges and also ensured that future direction "is clear and focuses on stabilising the organisation by cleaning up governance issues and stopping the bleeding, and thereafter re-energising and growing the business". Its turnaround plan included improving the earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA) margin to at least 35 percent by growing revenue and reducing costs, managing liquidity, including the recovery of arrear debt , investing in cost-plus mines to benefit from cheaper coal, restricting capital expenditure to R45-billion per year for at least the next three years and reducing reliance on debt financing through optimisation of the balance sheet. Wage negotiations with unions representing Eskom workers are expected to resume on Friday. The National Union of Mineworkers (NUM) said it was still open to negotiations despite its concern over Eskom's latest announcement. READ: Eskom must dig deeper, says Gordhan “We are serious about negotiations. Our members have indicated that a bonus is a deal-breaker. In this case, we are surprised now that Eskom has announced that our members are not getting a bonus and they are extremely angry,”  said the NUM's Livhuwani Mammburu. (Additional information: African News Agency) eNCA