• Editor's note: This article is updated each time new information becomes available. JOHANNESBURG - Power utility Eskom said on Tuesday that one of the coal-fired units at its Arnot power station was not working. It, however, denied claims by two union sources that five of the units were down because of low coal supplies and wage protests. Eskom spokesman Khulu Phasiwe did confirm union reports of intimidation at the plant by protesting employees preventing non-striking colleagues from showing up to work. He could not confirm reports that three other units at two power stations were down. The utility has warned that there was a high risk of electricity cuts this week because of the disruptions. Earlier, Eskom said they were operating normally after disruptions on Monday by workers protesting over wages, the company and union sources said. Eskom said on Monday that the protests raised the risk of electricity cuts this week in Africa's most industrialised economy. A source with the Solidarity trade union, one of three involved in the wage talks whose members have not taken part in the protests, confirmed that "all stations are open for workers to enter now". READ: Load-shedding threat as Eskom employees strike over bonuses The National Union of Mineworkers (NUM) says many of its members at Eskom are on what amounts to a wildcat strike. NUM energy sector coordinator Paris Mashego said the power stations affected on Monday included Kendal, Hendrina, Arnot, Duvha and Matla, with workers at the Kriel station expected to down tools on Tuesday. Eskom's Phasiwe said coal supplies remained a concern. "Six power stations still have low stock levels of coal, so it's critical that coal supplies continue to reach those stations," he said. The threat of protests and outages had appeared to recede after Eskom offered to raise salaries by around 7 percent annually over the next three years, but trade unions want bonuses to be paid before they agree on a wage deal. Eskom, which supplies more than 90 percent of South Africa's power, has been grappling with labour unrest as it cuts costs aiming to reverse a decade of steep financial decline. Reuters