SPONSORED Come on in, the water’s fine! Sink into chill mode this winter with these addictive series, all available for your next TV binge session. 1. Siren, Season 1 Bristol Cove is a small town that, the legend says, used to be home to mermaids. But everyone knows that’s just a story, and that there’s no such thing as shapeshifters that transform in the water. Or is there? When a strange woman called Ryn (Eline Powell) shows up out of the blue, the townsfolk start to wonder, especially when she says she’s looking for her sister. This chilling, brand-new series is making waves internationally for its stunning performances, including by Sibongile Mlambo, born in Zimbabwe, who plays Donna, Ryn’s captured mermaid sister. Watch now » 2. The River, daily episodes This addictive local telenovela explores how the discovery of a large diamond both divides and cleaves two powerful families together. It follows the story of mining magnate Lindiwe, who will go to great lengths to protect her company and her reputation - including abandoning a baby and committing murder. The first 100+ episodes are available to binge on Showmax (hello, soapie omnibus!), and brand-new episodes arrive on the platform every day express from the 1Magic broadcast on DStv. Watch now » 3. Lockdown, Seasons 1-2 Looking for a dose of hard-hitting, realistic action? This dark series set in a women’s prison in SA won’t disappoint. This is a world where power and survival mean everything, where everyone has their own questionable moral code, and where, sometimes, even the hardest criminals can have the softest hearts. From being filmed in a real-life prison to using ex-convicts as extras and consultants on the show, Lockdown is as authentic as it gets. The first two episodes of Season 3 are currently streaming on DStv Now, and the first two seasons are available to binge from the beginning on Showmax. Watch now » 4. Gunpowder Kit Harington plays the lead in this British miniseries about the story behind the legend of Guy Fawkes, and he was also the brains behind bringing his own ancestor Catholic rebel Robert Catesby to life. It was Catesby’s idea to assassinate King James I on 5 November 1605 and to blow up parliament, but as this show reveals, things did not go according to plan for Catesby and his cohorts on that fateful night. There are three hour-long episodes in this miniseries, so you can binge it one sitting - if you can take the heat. Watch now » 5. The Fosters, Seasons 1-5 Have you been following this flawed blended family from the beginning? The final season has arrived, and it’s only available on Showmax in SA. Callie joined Stef and Lena’s family in Season 1, and since then it’s been a rough ride for her and everyone who loves her … and that was before her hit-and-run incident in Season 4. Will she manage to turn her life around? This season has a 100% critics rating on Rotten Tomatoes, and Vulture says, “It even manages to teach us one last story about the realities of being a foster parent. It's just so, so lovely. We are not worthy.” Watch now » Showmax is free for DStv Premium subscribers, R49 for DStv Compact customers. Find out more about adding Showmax to your DStv account here »