MALABO, Equatorial Guinea – Equatorial Guinea's main opposition party said on Thursday it hoped for the early release of its jailed members a day after authoritarian President Teodoro Obiang Nguema declared a "total amnesty" for all political prisoners. Speaking to AFP, Gabriel Nse Obiang, head of the banned Citizens for Innovation (CI) party, said: "We hope our political prisoners will be released by tomorrow [Friday] or Saturday." The release should not be "limited" to CI members but apply to all of Obiang's political opponents, he added. Obiang, 76, has ruled the West African state since 1979, a tenure widely criticised for corruption, human rights abuses and misuse of the country's oil wealth. On Wednesday, he issued a decree granting "total amnesty to all citizens condemned by the courts," a move that came in the context of a claimed process of national dialogue. The amnesty would "enable broad attendance by all political actors," including "legalised political parties, political actors from home and abroad, civil society and religious faiths," according to the decree. READ: Equatorial Guinea President calls 'amnesty' for political prisoners All who took part were guaranteed "freedom" and "safety." The CI was banned on February 26. Twenty-one of its members, including the party's sole MP, were subsequently sentenced to 30 years for "sedition, public disorder, attacks on authority and serious bodily harm." Dozens of its supporters have been tortured, according to the CI which says two have died in custody. The crackdown against the party was purportedly over scuffles that took place before legislative elections last November -- but it came on the heels of the latest in a string of attempted coups against Obiang. On June 11, Obiang made a speech broadcast on nationwide TV declaring that a "dialogue and political interaction" would take place "to preserve peace and development." READ: Equatorial Guinea opposition sets conditions to attend 'national dialogue' The "dialogue," scheduled for July 16-21, is the sixth in his 38 years in office. The last such event was held in 2014 and five opposition parties were legalised after that, including the CI. The main opposition party at the time, the Convergence for Social Democracy (CPDS), boycotted the talks. On Tuesday, five opposition parties said they were ready to participate in the dialogue provided it was held "outside Equatorial Guinea... or in Equatorial Guinea but with the backing, help, protection and security of the international community." AFP