JOHANNESBURG - Back when Dalcha ‘Champion’ Lungiambula began his career in the Extreme Fighting Championship in Cape Town in 2014, there were some who were a tad miffed at the presumptuousness of a debutante coming into the hexagon for the very first time calling themselves ‘Champion’. This was a moniker gifted to him by his fellow migrant Congolese judoka of whom the athletically gifted Lungiambula was the most natural transferee to the sport of Mixed Martial Arts. That night in Goodwood, in an awesome presage performance he submitted veteran Roelof Scheepers by submission in the first round and it was at this point that not only did the promotion take note of his dominance, but also the presence of a raucous and colourful Kinshasa support crowd in the stands howling at the strain of every sinew. Dalcha’s next bout was a sell-out and went exactly the same way as the first, another veteran in Pete Motaung, another first-round submission. He fought again barely four weeks later looking fresh as a daisy with a decision against former champion Danie van Heerden and went on to win number one contender status with yet another decision against future middleweight champion, Yannick Bahati. It was a stellar four-fight winning streak against the best in the division, a dream career start most can only dream of that would culminate in belt-shot on the 8th of August 2015 against the fearsome and formidable incumbent, Norman Wessels. WATCH: The Clinch TV - Yannick Bahati vs Janikformidable incumbent, Norman Wessels To this day, the bout against ‘Chef’ remains Dalcha’s only loss. It was a tensed and charged atmosphere with rival camps and rival crowds, a steamy, raucous and threatening evening brimming with languid portent, it still raises the hair on the back of your correspondent’s neck as I type these words. Even though Lungiambula landed Wessels on his head in the first, the FFM leader attacked the back mercilessly in the second and sliced the forearm across to tuck-in the rear-naked and take the tap. In the most ironic form, it was a great loss. Fortunately, Kinshasa’s son got a redo after Wessels vacated his belt and the light-heavy buckle went up for grabs between Dalcha and former Champ, Gideon Drotschie at the back-end of 2015. Showing an improving stand-up game, as well as a growing confidence on the ground, Dalcha pounded his opponent out of contention in the fourth round to finally live up to his name – Champion Champion Dalcha. A two-year reign ensued whereby he dispatched all-comers including Tumelo Maphutha by decision, Alain Baudot by spectacular KO, and Stuart Austin by controversial TKO. It was at the press conference after Austin that Dalcha referenced Dricus du Plessis as a possible future opponent which many thought foolhardy considering the chasmic drop to middleweight, but at best it indicated an increasing cognisance of Du Plessis’s dual-belt status, a McGregorism as the Pretorian had just beaten Yannick Bahati to place the middleweight belt alongside the welterweight one he took from Martin van Staden in his trophy cabinet in Harties. It didn’t take long for Dalcha to recalibrate his crosshairs. The Heavyweight division was ruled by the iron fist and granite jaw of Andrew ‘One Gear’ Van Zyl whose dominance had exhausted all contenders both domestic and foreign, so the super-bout between the two divisional alphas was agreed for EFC 71 on the 23rd of June 2018. Not only was Van Zyl the EFC goat, but he also went into the fight 20 kilograms heavier than the smaller Dalcha. It turned out to be, however, a classic demonstration of technique over strength as Van Zyl struggled to get past Dalcha’s crisp striking combo’s and fell victim to numerous judo throws and takedowns from which the challenger surprised everyone with the better of the ground exchanges. In the fifth round, the bruised and battered champion chased a finish in the knowledge that he was four rounds down, but by this time Dalcha could back-pedal and suck a few shots knowing that staying out of trouble in the final stanza was a mere formality in becoming the EFC’s third bi-divisional champ after Du Plessis and Lino.
	And so it came to pass. In front of his adoring fans, his country’s ambassador and millions throughout the continent. A man who jumped the border as an illegal immigrant, who lived in the worst human settlements possible on the southernmost tip of Africa possessing only an incredible self-belief and a withering work ethic allayed with a God-given gift in limbed combat, finding himself a few years later with two considerable golden straps resting on two considerable trapezoids. Champion Dalcha Lungiambula, Heavyweight and Light Heavyweight Champion of the World. Nominative determinism, which literally means "name-driven outcome" was first mooted by psychologist Carl Jung and continues to be a popular topic of debate in the New Scientist. There is, however, no limit or delineation to the consequent benefits of naming oneself after any preferred destiny, which makes me wonder what next for this rising star of African MMA? Dalcha now belongs to the conversations swirling around Du Plessis, Buys, Zulu and Hanekom of whether defending belts on African soil is the ultimate career mission. Or is a man so magnetically enigmatic, a thorough mystery of a man from the Congo, a tabula rasa leviathan such as Dalcha whose epitome of athleticism and brooding menace the likes of which foreign promotions have NEVER witnessed, destined for even greater “name-driven outcomes.” Champion, champion, champion, champion…The future is yours, dibaku ya mbote. eNCA