CAPE TOWN - As things stand, Ajax Cape Town is in with a chance to maintain their status in the top flight of South African football. This after Judge Denise Fisher on Monday ruled in their favour and overrode advocate William Mokhari's earlier ruling that the Cape team should be demoted to the National First Division. Ajax were docked seven points from the games in which Tendai Ndoro had played, the Zimbabwean's participation called into question after it emerged he went against FIFA rules and played for three clubs in one season. READ: Ajax CT and Tendai Ndoro part ways According to Fisher, her reason for overruling Mokhari's decision was because only Fifa has the jurisdiction to rule on the matter. After the latest appeal from Ajax, which has come at the end of several months of court cases and hearings, the Urban Warriors will reclaim the seven points they were previously docked and as such are restored to 15th position on the league table. In addition, SuperSport United drop back out of the top eight (to be replaced by AmaZulu) after being deducted the points they were earlier awarded when Ajax lost the initial case. Also losing points are Polokwane City and Platinum Stars, although in their cases it makes little difference. READ: Ajax Cape Town left hanging by High Court After Ajax's automatic relegation, Platinum Stars had taken their place in the promotion-relegation play-offs but had lost out to Black Leopards, who are expecting to play in the top flight next season. The ball is now in the Premier Soccer League's court as to whether they decide to appeal against the latest ruling. The other options for the PSL are to replay the playoffs - which will likely bring an appeal from Leopards, or, in what may just be their best bet to end this ongoing nightmare which is tainting the league's image, they could allow for 17 or 18 teams in the league next season. In the interim, the Cape club has parted ways with Ndoro and also off-loaded a handful of players; most of them loan signings. African News Agency