JOHANNESBURG - The start of the new Absa Premiership season is days away and teams are busy finalising their playing personnel and technical teams. Supersport United, who had a scary end to their last league season, has been rather quiet so far in the current transfer window. The Tshwane side is yet to replace Eric Tinkler and it looks like caretaker coach Kaitano Tembo will lead the club into the new season. READ: Tinkler resigns as SuperSport United coach Despite the club doing well in the Caf Confederation Cup and winning the MTN8 Cup, they found the going much tougher in the league. It resulted in Tinkler parting ways with the club due to poor results. Assistant coach Tembo was roped in and did well in a short space of time as SuperSport climbed out of the relegation fight into the top 8. And it seems that SuperSport may have found Tinkler’s replacement at home. Looking at the opening game for the 2018/19 Season like ------ #ForeverUnited pic.twitter.com/7yTB7ZAINN “For me that’s not important what matters for me is to do my job like I’m doing now like I did last season as if it’s my last I don’t want to focus on other issues that I have no control of what I can control now is the responsibility that I have been given by the club and I really appreciate it and thanks them for that for showing confidence in me the board the CEO”, added Tembo. In any team having the support of players is vital. Judging by what the senior players at SuperSport United are saying, it seems that Tembo has perhaps won over the dressing room. SuperSport United Captain Dean Furman said, “For us from the moment coach Kaitano came in he has been fantastic with us he has known us for a long time we have known him for a long time as players we are fully behind him we have had a very solid pre-season working under him we hope that we can continue in a way that we ended last season and under his stewardship.” ------ #ForeverUnited pic.twitter.com/oqAA4cxn4p Midfielder Reneilwe Letsholonyane added, “For us as a club we have a coach and according to us he is our head coach we give him the same respect as someone who has a title of head coach we don’t care about a head coach or what we have a head coach Kaitano and we are planning properly for the new season.” Tembo will be the man on the bench when Matsatsantsa travel to Cape Town City in their first league clash. The new Absa Premiership season kicks off on Saturday 4 August. eNCA