BERLIN, Germany - Footballer Mesut Ozil said Sunday he had no regrets about his controversial photograph with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan that sparked questions about his loyalty to Germany's national squad ahead of the World Cup. Breaking his silence over the snapshot that caused outrage during the tournament, the Arsenal midfielder said in a statement on Twitter that he was loyal to both his Turkish and German origins and insisted he did not intend to make a political statement. READ: Germany out of the World Cup, Sweden makes it to last 16 "Like many people, my ancestry traces back to more than one country. Whilst I grew up in Germany, my family background has its roots firmly based in Turkey," he said. "I have two hearts, one German and one Turkish." Ozil said he had first met Erdogan in 2010 after the president and German Chancellor Angela Merkel watched a Germany-Turkey match together. "Since then, our paths have crossed a lot of times around the globe," he said. The past couple of weeks have given me time to reflect, and time to think over the events of the last few months. Consequently, I want to share my thoughts and feelings about what has happened. pic.twitter.com/WpWrlHxx74 "I'm aware that the picture of us caused a huge response in the German media, and whilst some people may accuse me of lying or being deceitful, the picture we took had no political intentions." Ozil said despite the timing of the picture with teammate Ilkay Gundogan and Erdogan - shortly before the president won re-election in a poll endowing him with sweeping new powers - "it wasn't about politics or elections, it was about me respecting the highest office of my family's country". "My job is a football player and not a politician, and our meeting was not an endorsement of any policies," Ozil said. "I get that this may be hard to understand, as in most cultures the political leader cannot be thought of as being separate from the person. But in this case it is different. Whatever the outcome would've been in this previous election, or the election before that, I would have still taken the picture." READ: Holders Germany stunned by Mexico Ozil, 29, came in for stinging criticism in Germany for their shock first-round defeat at the World Cup. Team boss Oliver Bierhoff suggested after the debacle that Germany should have considered dropping Ozil after his failure to explain himself over the Erdogan picture. Bierhoff later backtracked, saying that he "was wrong" to put Ozil under undue pressure, but the picture continued to draw scorn from fans on social media. Germany is home to more than three million people of Turkish origin. AFP