JOHANNESBURG - The Premier Soccer League's (PSL) Executive Committee will hold an emergency meeting on Thursday. The PSL will address the court’s decision to set aside South African Football Association Arbitrator William Mokhari’s decision to dock the Ajax Cape Town 7 points for fielding the ineligible Tendai Ndoro in the Absa Premiership. READ: Ball in the PSL's court in Ajax matter This week’s court ruling has created unheralded drama ahead of the new season. It effectively means the Urban Warriors’ direct relegation and the results of the Promotion/Relegation Play-offs will be rendered null and void. According to Nkululeko Nkewu, Soccer Laduma journalist, Ajax Cape Town are now number 15 instead of number 16 and Platinum Stars - now known as Cape United - are number 16 and still relegated even though they were relegated via a playoff. "It is surprising in that we are not accustomed to these kinds of things happening, but it is not surprising to the legal eyes,” says Nkewu. The PSL don’t see it that way, especially as the matter will now be referred to FIFA Players' Status Committee for a decision on Ndoro’s eligibility. Nkewu believes the drama, now dubbed “Ndorogate,” was handled poorly by the League. “The PSL usually mails out the media and the clubs that there’s a possibility that a player may miss the next game. So in that mindset and in following that consistency, you expected that the PSL should have alerted the club that the player has been registered for the third club in one season and therefore should not be played. Ajax CT for their part should have been able to understand and interpret the rules and not play the player.” This situation has intensified calls for an increased number of teams in the League, something which has been dismissed for a number of years. “Part of the reason why they’ve avoided the expansion is the ease of competition and the congestion of fixtures. When you have 16 teams it’s easier for them to organise competitions, because you start from the last 16 in the Telkom Knockout, then you have 16 teams from the PSL, and 16 teams in the Nedbank Cup. So it’s easier to deal with but I think more importantly is the matter of time, the time that it takes for two more teams in the PSL,” explains Nkewu. The pressure is now firmly on the PSL’s Executive Committee is to find a solution on Thursday. Meanwhile, all parties involved are seeking legal counsel. eNCA