SPONSORED CAPFIN’s approach to providing short-term loans stem from two simple words: CAPFIN everywhere. The business model is simple; provide easy-to-manage loans of up to R 50 000, with repayment terms of up to 24 months, that is easily accessible to all. Their loan application process is rooted in making applying for a loan simple, easy and convenient for customers. With this approach in mind, they have developed an online, SMS and in-store loan application function. Customers are given access to digital entry points where they may apply for a loan by either visiting capfin.co.za, or by sending their SA ID number to 33005 to initiate their loan application. CAPFIN has strategically partnered with PEP and Ackermans, where customers are required to scan their necessary documents at the dedicated store till points. Applying via any of these methods, only require customers to present their SA ID, three latest bank statements or three latest payslips. The rationale behind CAPFIN everywhere is a straightforward concept which speaks of CAPFIN loans being readily available and easily accessible to all. Customers sitting in the park or waiting in front of the schoolyard for their kids can apply with their mobile device, or those doing their shopping can head into any PEP or Ackermans and have their loan provisionally approved within minutes. CAPFIN stands by delivering efficiency where customer service is put at the forefront of the business. Their contact centre is committed to breaking the record for fastest answered calls, as well as a swift first-call resolution rate while still providing proficient service. With a customer-centric approach, CAPFIN continues to deliver exceptional service by tracking and measuring their Contact Centre Key Performance Indicators against global benchmarks. An astounding customer satisfaction rating catapulted CAPFIN into the Sunday Times Top Brands Awards in 2016 and 2017, in their micro-lenders category. This globally recognised award confirms that credit consumers consider CAPFIN to be one of the most recognised, and preferred micro-lenders. The BPESA/CCMG Contact Centre Industry awarded CAPFIN with consecutive accolades from 2014 to 2017, which included the award for Best Skills Development Company and Best Captive Contact Centre Company. These industry awards recognise excellence by rewarding individuals, as well as businesses for their outstanding success. With their well-established track record and drive to provide efficient service, CAPFIN is soon becoming an industry leader in micro-lending. For more information on CAPFIN loan products visit capfin.co.za.CAP Follow CapfinSA on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. CAPFIN is a division of Century Capital (Pty) Ltd.  Century Capital is a registered credit provider, NCRCP74. Your loan application is subject to an affordability assessment and CAPFIN’s Credit Policy. SMS charged at standard rates. Terms and Conditions apply. Company Bio: CAPFIN was founded in 2010 with a vision to provide customers with affordable loan products and services. We believe applying for a loan should be simple, affordable and easily accessible to all. From a start-up team of three people to over 1000 people working together, we continue to strive to make a positive impact in the lives of our customers.