SINGAPORE – Mesut Ozil fired Arsenal to a 5-1 friendly win over Paris Saint-Germain on Saturday as he cast aside a turbulent week after quitting Germany's national team claiming racism. Ozil put Arsenal ahead in the 13th minute before Alexandre Lacazette's quickfire double and late strikes from Rob Holding and Eddie Nketiah against a youthful PSG side. The International Champions Cup win in Singapore was also a boost for Arsenal's new manager Unai Emery against his former club, now under Germany's Thomas Tuchel. Mesut Ozil has put arsenal 1-0 up against PSG in their pre season friendly pic.twitter.com/j6dYZt0omb Ozil, named as captain after his torrid week, was quickly into his stride with midfield partner Henrikh Mkhitaryan against a PSG line-up shorn of its World Cup stars. READ: 'I have two hearts, one German and one Turkish': Ozil He opened the scoring with a tap-in at the far post after Mkhitaryan released Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang in space and the Gabonese forward passed back across the face. Ozil's exquisite flick during a length-of-the pitch move nearly produced Arsenal's second but Gianluigi Buffon saved well from Nigeria's Alex Iwobi. The Italian great also denied Aubameyang and Mkhitaryan, while at the other end teenager Timothy Weah twice went close and Christopher Nkunku curled one over. Great workout - that's what it's all about --
		
		It ends Arsenal 5-1 PSG --#ICC2018 x #AFCTour2018 ---- pic.twitter.com/kgNVDwqBio After the break, an Nkunku free kick drew a flying save from Arsenal substitute Emiliano Martinez, before Weah went down for a 59th-minute penalty which Nkunku converted with aplomb. READ: Ozil's resignation sparks Germany racism storm as Turkey cheers But Lacazette hit back with two goals in four minutes -- first a sumptuous, near-post heel-flick which sailed past the nonplussed Buffon, and then a close-range header. Lacazette restores the lead for Arsenal, 2-1. Emile Smith Rowe with the assist just a minute after coming on pic.twitter.com/hdovIYIvpp Arsenal are toying with PSG in Singapore. Nketiah scores as @Aubameyang7 and @MesutOzil1088 dance on the bench.
		
		(90’) 5:1 @EddieNketiah9 --------------#ARSPSG #ICC2018 #Singapore pic.twitter.com/zMJ0dzpxSe Substitute defender Holding added the fourth with a towering header on 87 minutes, before Nketiah swept home Arsenal's fifth with the last kick of the game. Ozil, who is of Turkish heritage, sent shockwaves through Germany this week when he quit the national team complaining of "racism and disrespect" from football authorities AFP