TAMPERE, Finland - Sokwakhana Zazini will be a top contender in the boy’s 400m hurdles at the IAAF World Junior Championships in Tampere, Finland, which started on Tuesday. Zazini will first be in action on Thursday, with the final scheduled for Sunday. South Africa, remember this name, Zazini Sokwakhana! Watch him destroy the fastest 400m hurdlers on the planet #IAAFWorldU18Championships pic.twitter.com/qw7Ai0hNUx His best time of 49.32 seconds is currently the fastest by an under-20 athlete in the world. “I told myself that I don’t consider myself to be a junior athlete anymore. I will race anyone anytime no matter how old they are or what they had achieved,” said Zazini. “If I get whipped, so be it, I will take it like a man. The only thing that matters to me is that afterwards, I should know that I raced to the best of my ability.” “I realise that South African sports fans tend to expect something magic, and it is their right to do so. I guess I will just have to handle the pressure. I am actually quite good at doing so. This I can promise if I feel good, I will certainly try and do some magic.” Sokwakhana Zazini winning the 400m #ASAjuniors @KayaFMSport pic.twitter.com/vQGqINzjHt Coach Hennie Kriel agrees that Zazini could be considered the favourite to win the 400m hurdles, but warns that it would be foolish to take anything for granted. “So far this season four junior athletes have already managed to dip under 50 seconds which means that ‘Socks’ will have to be on top of his game from the semi-finals onwards. He is definitely in for a tougher challenge than he was during last year's World Youth Championships, but then again he loves a real challenge. I would have liked him to have raced a few more races in Europe, but due to him being in matric, it was unfortunately not possible.” Last year Zazini set a world youth record running 48.84, and he also won the gold medal at the IAAF World Youth Championships in Nairobi. A definite highlight was this year’s South African Senior Championships where he finished second in the 400m hurdles final running 49.32 beating LJ van Zyl, Cornel Fredericks and Le Roux Hamman. Boys 400m hurdle finals goes through with thundering cheers from the Crowd. Zazini Sokwakhana (RSA) bags gold & Kenya's Naadokila silver pic.twitter.com/ifstGS2nVw In June in Prague, he competed for the first time in an international 400m hurdles race. He placed fourth running 49.56 which is so far the second fastest time this year by a junior athlete. At the South African Junior Championships in Paarl, he won gold in the 400m hurdles and the 400 metres. His performance in the 400m was something special. He won in a time of 45.86. In doing so, he became only the second junior athlete to run a sub 46-second race. Riaan Dempers was the first running 45.15 in 1994. African News Agency