PRETORIA - The Government is investigating the  Lodewyk Spies Old Age Home in Pretoria for alleged mistreatment. Residents of the home in the east of the capital say they're not being given enough to eat, and that they've been without toiletries for more than two months. But the manager denies the allegations and blames the Social Development Department for late subsidy payments. Residents told eNCA that if they complain about not receiving toiletries they are threatened that they will be thrown out of the home. They say they are not treated with the dignity and humanity they deserve. The alleged lack of toiletries has become a hygiene issue. Those who cook, clean, and care for the residents corroborate their claims, saying they are emotionally abused. Staff say they've not been paid their salaries. Members of a local Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) branch visited the home after receiving distress calls. Efforts to get answers from the man in charge, Abraham Damons, got off to a bumpy start as he refused to speak to the media. He later agreed to speak,  but only off-camera. According to Damons, residents and staff are lying. "Identify those residents that told you so, they are the ones that go to Facebook to post malicious stories," he said. In February, the local newspaper Pretoria Rekord Moot reported that accusations were made on social media that patients at the home were sleeping on the floor. Damons reportedly denied this at the time, saying a staff member had staged the picture that was circulated. READ: Old age home manager embezzled R500k from elderly Damons said 80 percent of the home's budget came from the Social Development Department and payment has been late, leading to non-payment of staff. The Social Development Department conceded that grant payments to this home and scores of other NGOs across the province were delayed due to a strike in the department, but said it doubted this could have led to the situation described by residents and staff members. The department said it would escalate its probe into the home and its finances. eNCA