JOHANNESBURG – Operations at Sibanye-Stillwater's Masakhane shaft at Driefontein mine have resumed after seven miners were killed during a seismic event on Thursday. Thirteen workers were trapped underground. Six were rescued alive by the mine's rescue personnel and were taken to hospital. "The families of all of the employees have been contacted and assisted with transport to the mine, and have been receiving necessary support and counselling, which will be ongoing," the mine said in a statement on Monday. “Our deep level mining layouts and support systems are designed to cater for this level of seismicity and I assure you we will, together with the Department of Mineral Resources (DMR) and other stakeholders, be conducting a comprehensive investigation into this incident, in order to establish the cause of the incident and what actions need to be taken, to ensure this never happens again," head of investor relations, James Wellsted said. READ: Sibanye-Stillwater mine accident raises concerns about mine safety: Solidarity This is not the first incident at a Sibanye mine this year. In February, more than 900 miners were trapped at a Sibanye gold mine in Free State. They were all rescued. In March, two workers died at Sibanye-Stillwater's Kloof Mine in Westonaria during a rock fall. "The health and safety of our people is paramount and we remain committed to taking any actions necessary, which will support our quest for zero harm in the workplace”, Neal Froneman, CEO of Sibanye-Stillwater stated. WATCH: 30 miners lost their lives so far this year "A thorough in-loco inspection and investigation by management, the DMR and other stakeholders, will be conducted at a date to be established by the DMR. Normal operations at the rest of the Driefontein operations resumed on Saturday 5 May 2018." A day of mourning and a memorial service for the mineworkers who died have been declared for the entire Driefontein operation on Thursday, with employees at the Masakhane mine being given another day of mourning on Friday. The funeral for the workers will be held on Saturday. eNCA