JOHANNESBURG - The ANC  provincial executive council (PEC) in North West has made it clear that its embattled leader, Supra Mahumapelo, is going nowhere. #BREAKING ANC PEC resolves that #SupraMahumapelo isn’t going anywhere. [WATCH] #SupraMahumapelo: The #ANC's PEC announce that Supra #Mahumapelo will remain as the North West Premier. Courtesy #DStv403 pic.twitter.com/f3zFMuMTDI On Tuesday, the ANC in North West had released a statement welcoming his exit. Mahumapelo had said he would resign by midday on Wednesday. But on Wednesday he said the ANC would have to ask him to leave. WATCH: I await PEC to ask me to resign, says Supra Mahumapelo In a press conference on Wednesday, the PEC said it had instructed Mahumapelo to withdraw his resignation. #SupraMahumapelo Dantjie:The Premier has instructed the premier to withdraw his resignation because he did so without informing the party, only the ANC can recall the deployee. He was given the opportunity to talk to the PEC about this resignation. #SupraMahumapelo Dantjie:There is no reason for the Premier to step down now, Premier Supra Mahumapelo must take leave and an Acting Premier must be appointed. #BREAKING ANC PEC says that the Premier #SupraMahumapelo must take leave and an Acting Premier must be appointed. Mahumapelo's about-turn on his resignation has been described as the last kicks of a dying horse. According to political analyst Theo Venter: "The [ANC] provincial executive has no say. What makes this more of a joke (is that) three of the regions are interim structures ... he appointed them, he chairs the meeting." Venter believes the ANC "will definitely act against the leadership of Mahumapelo." North West has been rocked by violent protests, with residents calling for Mahumapelo to resign. However, on Wednesday, Mahumapelo’s supporters stormed a meeting of the ANC PEC. #SupraMahumapelo supporters now queuing to get food as they are here to support their embattled Premier. pic.twitter.com/Ak1p2ECWLj On Wednesday afternoon, Mahumapelo addressed his supporters after the PEC meeting. Mahumapelo says he's heading to court. #SupraMahumapelo https://t.co/SOEZ3D6YwH #SupraMahumapelo: I am realized and cool, one has gone through many things in the ANC. It is individuals that cause problems in the ANC. #SupraMahumapelo: I am happy that the ANC says it will support its Chairperson in this regard. The PEC says I must take aggressive legal action. Am going to start with the so-called revolutionary council legally because they break the law. #SupraMahumapelo: Some individuals have got a problem with me, I don’t a problem with the opposition because they don’t have any power unless they use comrades in the ANC. A public policy specialist from the North West University, Kagiso Pooe says Mahumapelo is still in charge in North West. According to Pooe, Mahumapelo should have fixed the problems plaguing the province instead of just mentioning them. eNCA