JOHANNESBURG – The Democratic Alliance (DA) on Tuesday lost its motion of no confidence in Gauteng Premier David Makhura over the Life Esidimeni deaths. #MakhuraNoConfidence 65 votes tallied - 27 yes - 38 no - 1 abstention. Motion fails. @David_Makhura survives as @GautengProvince premier #Esidmeni Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) provincial leader Mandisa Mashego on Tuesday said Makhura should be in prison over the tragedy. The official opposition in the province wanted him to take responsibility for the deaths of 144 mentally-ill patients who died after they were transferred to unlicenced non-governmental organisations (NGOs). The botched 2015 and 2016 transfers resulted in patients dying of hunger, cold, dehydration and general lack of care. WATCH: Health Minister takes the stand in Esidimeni arbitration hearings "The Premier should have resigned a long time ago and actually be in jail... We shouldn't be sitting hear debating this DA motion," Mashego said. Mashego chronicled alleged failures by the provincial government under Makhura. “You spent R1 billion on renting office space in the 2015/2016 financial year instead of getting [your] own offices. Your human settlements department promised to build 600,000 houses, you have built not more than 100,000,” Mashego added. "The Gauteng broadband project is a R1 billion scam...your department of health is the worst disaster in history. We support the motion, Makhura, just go." DA Gauteng leader John Moody, speaking earlier in the provincial legislature, said: “Premier David Makhura has lost the confidence of the Gauteng provincial legislature. He should be removed from office. READ: Health minister weeps at Esidimeni hearing He said the intention of the motion was not to pass judgment, but instead a move that should have been done some time ago. “As the leader of the Gauteng government, the premier has even more responsibility to carry. He is ultimately responsible for the success or failures of his government,” he added. eNCA