JOHANNESBURG - The United Nations Economic Commission for Africa says it respects South Africa’s plans to follow its parliamentary processes before signing the Africa Continental Free Trade Area agreement. Delegates to a meeting of ministers hosted by the commission in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia are hoping at least 10 countries will have ratified the Africa Free Trade Agreement by the end of their gathering. In March, 44 countries, including South Africa, signed a declaration of intent to establish a continental free trade area. Vera Songwe, an executive director at the commission, said President Cyril Ramaphosa made the right move in delaying signing the actual agreement. "He had not had the adequate consultations, it needs to go through Parliament, they need to discuss it. But he signed the intent, which means: as South Africa, we believe in the future of this but we need to do the right processes,” she said. READ: Why Africa's free trade area offers so much promise The trade agreement is aimed at boosting intra-African trade by scrapping duties on 90-percent of traded products. The big payoff is economic development, as countries build up their exports and create jobs in their respective markets. There are 1.2-billion people to cover, in an economy worth $2.5-trillion (R30.6-trillion). But only 18 percent of Africa’s trade is done within the continent. Some countries are concerned that cheap goods will be dumped from other countries. One expert says such concerns are unfounded. “When you open up and give more opportunities to your business, you’re actually expanding your fiscal space, your tax base," says David Luke, coordinator of the  Africa Trade Policy Centre. "And it’s no longer the norm in the 21st century to depend on import duties for revenues. It should depend on corporate taxes, income taxes, VAT.” Ghana and regional powerhouse Kenya have already ratified the agreement. Inefficient border controls, corruption,  and poor infrastructure remain the biggest barriers to flowing cross-border trade in Africa. eNCA