PORT ELIZABETH – The DA's Eastern Cape leader Nqaba Bhanga has thrown his weight behind the party's leader Mmusi Maimane, amid a storm around the latter's comments on "white privilege and black poverty". This follows a City Press report on Sunday that Maimane came under fire from three senior MPs – Chief Whip John Steenhuisen, Deputy Chief Whip Mike Waters, and MP and deputy chair of the party's federal council Natasha Mazzone – at a parliamentary caucus meeting. The three reportedly voiced concerns that Maimane's remarks may alienate white voters ahead of next year’s general election, as the party seeks to take control of Gauteng. Maimane told a Freedom Day rally in Soshanguve in April that “white privilege and black poverty” must be confronted. I firmly stand by comments I made on Freedom Day. SA remains deeply unequal, with black SAns locked out of opportunities. We must focus on solving the problem. Liberation of one race is not the enslaving of another - all of us, black & white, must come together to build #1SA4All Dumelang. I will continue to fight for a fair, free, diverse South Africa that offers opportunities for all. Our nation inherited a divided country on race, this gov has not done enough to bring about the change we need for all to prosper. Together we can change this. #1SA4All Bhanga said Maimane was correct in raising the matter, and that the legacy of apartheid continues to determine who has access to opportunities. "Apartheid was a system designed to benefit white South Africans and disadvantage black South Africans. The privilege associated with that system lives on and can never be denied or be swept under the carpet. I, therefore, agree with the DA’s Federal Leader, Mmusi Maimane, when he says that the time has come for South Africans to confront “white privilege and black poverty'." Bhanga said the historical imbalance is clearest in the spatial development of the country, which placed white people in a privileged position and black people in a disadvantaged position. "The DA’s position is to redress the imbalances by building a South African society in which individuals can compete in the same space with equal opportunities. Unfortunately, the current social and economic reality is that access to opportunities is still defined by the haves versus the have-nots." READ: Mashaba backs Maimane on white privilege comments Meanwhile, the DA dismissed reports that senior leaders are at loggerheads over Maimane's remarks. Mazzone has told media that the party’s top brass did not attack the party leader for his comments, but had engaged in a healthy discussion on the subject. She tweeted that she herself was a privileged individual. "I use myself as an example, I was extremely privileged. My father, however, arrived here with NOTHING, was not privileged. My job is to ensure that we create an equal South Africa where we ALL have the same opportunities! We mustn't be scared to talk about these things. "My father arrived from Naples in Italy, he was dark and could not speak English or Afrikaans, but he was a great chef. He built himself up from nothing to make a good life for his family. I HONOUR and thank my father." she tweeted. I stand 100% with Mmusi. We continue to fight for a free, fair and diverse South Africa that offers opportunities for ALL!! Mmusi Maimane, my LEADER! ------------ https://t.co/XHIlQ86TdP I stand 100% with my Leader Mmusi Maimane. I too will not pander to racists. Our mission is to create a South Africa for ALL who live here. Divided we are weak, united, we are unstoppable. South Africa first, ALWAYS ---- https://t.co/Kosy547BEA African News Agency