JOHANNESBURG – Several municipalities are in severe financial trouble. In its latest report on the state of local government, National Treasury said 64 municipalities had negative cash balances at the end of last June. Treasury's report, titled "The State of Local Government and Financial Management 2017", examines the financial health of all 257 municipalities in the country. Seventeen district municipalities experienced financial distress during the 2016/17 financial year, compared with 16 in the previous period. Treasury said it is cause for concern that district municipalities are financially distressed, given the role they have to play in empowering and capacitating local municipalities. READ: Some SA cities on brink of collapse: Nene Analysts believe the continued culture of non-accountability in local government, together with acting appointments in key positions, are hampering service delivery.
	
	“There’s an overall culture of unaccountability at the municipal level. A lot the problems that these municipalities have that has been identified by Treasury and AG (Auditor-General) have been problems that have been there for years, three to five years, sometimes longer. These problems haven’t been fixed,” said director of Edplatform and local government analyst, Paul Berkowitz.
	
	There is also instability in senior municipal management positions with an increase in the number of acting municipal managers and chief financial officers. This has a negative impact on service delivery. Most of these acting positions are in the North West, Limpopo, Northern Cape and Mpumalanga.
	
	The Auditor-General, in his reports, revealed the financial health of municipalities is declining steadily and only 35 percent is considered healthy. READ: Municipalities who invested with VBS Bank acted irresponsibly: Sanco Inadequate internal control measures, ineffective political and administrative leadership and slow responses to key risk areas have been blamed for the poor auditing measures.
	
	“If the situation isn’t changed it’s almost inevitable that in order to safeguard service delivery for the poor and vulnerable, the national government will have no choice but to remove those powers from municipalities and re-centralise,” said Berkowitz.
	
	The Treasury report found that while 64 municipalities had negative cash balances at the end of last June, none of the metros recorded negative cash balances. This is a strong indication that, in general, they have a solid cash base and comply with cash flow management procedures. eNCA