MOSCOW - Portugal's Euro 2016 final hero Eder scored late to secure Lokomotiv Moscow their first Russian league title since 2004 on Saturday. Eder netted three minutes from time against Roberto Mancini's Zenit St Petersburg to earn Lokomotiv a 1-0 win and leave them with an unassailable seven-point lead ahead of Spartak. Their city rivals take on Rostov later on Saturday, with just one match remaining. -- Eder scores just his 4th goal of the season to make Lokomotiv Moscow the 2017/18 RFPL Champions! pic.twitter.com/K5rGuNZcZe In front of a capacity 27,000 crowd at Moscow's RZhD Arena Eder came on as a second-half substitute in the 79th minute. That was uncannily the precise same minute he entered proceedings at the Stade de France in the Euro 2016 final when he went on to score the match winner to down France and hand Portugal their first European crown. "I always believed that we're capable of winning the title," said Lokomotiv head coach Yury Syomin, who signed a new one-year contract with the club this week. "Even when we dropped points in recent games I believed in my players. We've passed this tough test with dignity." Lokomotiv, winless in their last three league outings, started cautiously trying to avoid any unnecessary risks. CHAMPIONS!!! pic.twitter.com/He6RtZTTdR In a low-key start Zenit's only meaningful chance came in the 40th minute when Alexander Erokhin found unmarked striker Sebastian Driussi in the area, but the Argentinian failed to find the net. After the interval Lokomotiv changed up a gear and in the 66th minute, Peruvian winger Jefferson Farfan scored only to see his effort ruled out for offside. Then just as the game looked to be heading towards a goalless conclusion Eder broke the deadlock, firing the ball in from close range off Vladislav Ignatiev's pinpoint right-wing cross. "I'd like to congratulate Lokomotiv on the title," said Zenit boss Mancini, who is tipped to take the vacant Italy job. "They've played well this season and won deservedly. Lokomotiv Moscow are champions and will play Champions League football next season. Eder, who scored the title-clinching goal, also netted the winning goal for Portugal in the Euro 2016 final. He spent a goalless year at Swansea in 2015/16. What a different two seasons makes. pic.twitter.com/FSremytGx6 "We're not at all happy with a draw and tried to snatch the victory in the end of the game. But with that we gave Lokomotiv too much space and conceded a goal." AFP