JOHANNESBURG – Shoprite Holdings on Wednesday apologised for a contentious Mother's Day "display" that it said was photographed out of context. Earlier, Africa’s largest supermarket chain was left with egg on its face after a store seemingly advertised home cleaning products as possible gifts for Mother's Day. A picture was circulated on similar media of a display labeled “Gifts to wow mom” which contained dishwashing, bleaching, and furniture cleaning products. What to get mom on Mother's Day? Dishwashing liquid and bleach, suggests Africa's largest supermarket @CheckersSA pic.twitter.com/fjM6FuR9NT According to Checkers, the incident happened at Checkers Van Der Lingen in Paarl. Oh dear, this is not what our Mother's Day display should look like. We will rectify this as soon as the correct branch is identified. Please see the promotion here https://t.co/aaPAgglju0 This is what our display should look like -- pic.twitter.com/1MmjIry0rJ The supermarket said the merchandise was in the process of being moved from the back to the front of the store. “The Mother’s Day photo circulating on social media was taken at the Checkers Van Der Lingen store in Paarl on Friday, 4 May 2018, while the store was moving a Mother’s Day display from the back to the front of the store ahead of Mother’s Day this Sunday,” Checkers said in a statement. “We understand how the original photo could be misconstrued and for that we apologise. The photo was taken in the process of the display being moved. It was never our intention to put up a Mother’s Day display consisting of cleaning products. “Checkers would like to wish all a happy Mother’s Day,” the statement said. READ: Celebrities celebrate their mothers on Mother’s Day Social media users accused Checkers of sexism, while others asked if the advert was a marketing stunt. Checkers has no respect! Is Mom meant to be spring cleaning on Mothers Day? pic.twitter.com/03TvYlvE3Q Dear Checkers... this is surely a mistake... As for Gifts to Wow Mom khona, angikho sure pic.twitter.com/wgXTrIOfoe A Checkers Mother's Day display but it's just Rescue Remedy and good cheese. Having a lot of advertising experience, I can tell that this is a marketing stunt. We sharing & debating about this mothers' day display at Checkers and those select brands are getting much exposure,I wont be surprised if there's a deal between those brands and Checkers. pic.twitter.com/9EuXvOBp3X Haibo what's wrong with checkers our mothers need to relax not 2 work atleast they need to display "wine & chocolates" is since ne weather iyavuma plz eNCA