CAPE TOWN - The Western Cape High Court on Tuesday handed down judgment in the contentious Cape Town mayorship saga involving Patricia de Lille. Judge Patrick Gamble ruled that De Lille is to remain as mayor of Cape Town and as a councillor. De Lille, recently stripped of her party membership, took the Democratic Alliance (DA) to court over the move. She was also fighting to be reinstated as Cape Town mayor. Acting mayor Ian Nielson this week held back on appointing a new mayoral committee in order to allow for the court processes to run its course. READ: 'Unstoppable' Neilson backtracks as De Lille judgment due Tuesday The DA has also suspended its discussions on De Lille's position, pending legal advice, FedEx deputy chairperson Natasha Mazzone revealed on Saturday. #PatriciaDeLille Gamble says it seems the City Manager and Speaker acted with much haste. #PatriciaDeLille Gamble: the relationship between parties is contractual in nature. A member agrees to abide by the constitution #PatriciaDeLille Gamble: we understand PdL to base her application on 4 categories. PdL claims she aired her intention to resign as mayor and not from the party and that the DA had applied double standards. She also attacks the constitutionality of the recall&cessation clauses #PatriciaDeLille Gamble: the harm her loss of office has for the people of Cape Town warrants serious consideration. The City has lost its first citizen and mayco #PatriciaDeLille Gamble speaks to Ian Nielson’s move to try replace mayco. He questions whether the DA’s move to remove de Lille was just about the mayor or mayco as a whole. #PatriciaDeLille Gamble says such musical chairs in council is not in the interest of governance of the city or its residents #PatriciaDeLille Gamble: Preservation of the status quo to when PdL was at the helm, is in our view the only reasonable alternative. There’s no practical way to achieve this other than granting the relief sought by PdL De Lille addressed the media shortly after Tuesday's ruling. The DA has reluctantly welcomed the court judgment. The party says this is the best way forward for the citizens of Cape Town. According to Natasha Mazzone, DA MP: "Undoubtedly the winners here is the City of Cape Town." eNCA