CAPE TOWN - With a career in activism spanning more than 40 years, the Congress of South African Trade Unions (Cosatu)'s Western Cape chairperson says it's time to leave his position. Tony Ehrenreich says his activism began when he was just 13, at a solidarity march after the 1976 massacre in Soweto. After 27 years of service with Cosatu, it's time for him to hang up his loud hailer. Ehrenreich says that, after six terms, his resignation is long overdue. "I've been in Cosatu for 27 years now and I've been in this position for 22 years, six terms. I just feel it's time for new ideas, fresh leadership," says Ehrenreich. But the 56-year-old says this is by no means his retirement. "I'll be job-hunting after June this year and I'll be sending my CV to some of the unions ... I hope to be a political activist until I can't walk anymore." READ: Cosatu Western Cape calls for enactment of Freedom Charter Ehrenreich's union work began in earnest in his early twenties, when he helped organise the men he worked with as a mechanic. Looking back at his career, his personal highlight is the 2013 farmworkers' strike that led to a 50 percent wage increase.
	
	"Here were workers across the Western Cape, the poorest workers, taking a stand against the brutality, the racism, the low wages," he says. "On behalf of Cosatu I was part of the negotiating team to try find an agreement between government, farmers and workers' organisations. You would remember that there were rightwingers coming from the Free State, coming armed, to try and perpetrate violence." He says more radicalism is needed in legislature and he would be willing to be a public representative - with the same cost-saving conditions - similar to when he was an ANC mayoral candidate and councillor in Cape Town. "Because I was earning a Cosatu salary, I never took the R30,000 a month. I put up a board and that board dispensed that money to charities and other things. I firmly believe in the principle that you can't have two salaries." Ehrenreich says while he is proud of the work the federation has done over the years, it’s more fractured than ever before. "The leadership clearly do not have the leadership abilities to unite us. You need other leaders, younger people, who are not contaminated with the differences of the past." Leaders are now embedded in the capitalist system, he says. "The general secretary earns nearly as much as a member of Parliament. That apartheid wage gap that we fought between manager and workers is now in existence in the unions," he says. Ehrenreich says the only way unions and workers will be taken seriously is through a united and sustained show of force. eNCA