PORT ELIZABETH - President Cyril Ramaphosa says the proposed minimum wage will serve its purpose, despite criticism by some trade unions. Ramaphosa was speaking at the Congress of South African Trade Unions (Cosatu)'s Workers' Day celebration rally in Port Elizabeth on Tuesday. “Within the next few months workers in our country are going to achieve another historic victory with the introduction of the national minimum wage for all working South Africans," said Ramaphosa. "I want you to understand this clearly. This is a victory for all workers in our country no matter what other people may say. "This is also a victory for Cosatu, which was the first to really raise this issue. It was in the Freedom Charter and over the years it remained there. Cosatu said there's an important demand that there shall be a national minimum wage." WATCH: Workers Day celebrated at rally in PE Ramaphosa says the proposed R3,500-a-month minimum wage is aimed at saving jobs. He told the crowd at the Cosatu rally that increasing the amount might have led to job losses. "We had to balance between losing millions of jobs and establishing a firm base," said Ramaphosa. Workers' right to protest should always be protected, but they should remember the responsibility that comes with it, he said. “When you protest in a disorderly way and you burn, you may think you are attracting the attention of those whose property you are burning. My own view is that they listen more to you when they know you are doing it in a disciplined manner," said Ramaphosa. Numsa general secretary Irvin Jim says Ramaphosa has failed to fight the exploitation of black South Africans. READ: Numsa threatens court action over 'insulting' national minimum wage "We can't be fooled by Ramaphosa. He is the Trump of South Africa," said Jim on Workers' Day. "He is prepared to supervise exploitation of black and African labour ... If he was genuine ... simple thing: tell those white to open their books, let's see how much money they are making ... Let's then decide what is a fair minimum wage." READ: Opposition to Labour Act changes mount on Workers' Day Zwelinzima Vavi, the general secretary of the South African Federation of Trade Unions (Saftu), said the fight for the emancipation of the working class would intensify. "A new struggle has begun, a new revolution is under way," said Vavi. "We are in a struggle to liberate black people ... We are not going to back down because we understand that struggle for the total emancipation of the working class." eNCA