DOHA - Putting the latest IAAF ruling on her future participation aside, Caster Semenya will once more let her performances do the talking when she lines up in the women's 1 500m in a Diamond League meeting in Doha on Friday night. Semenya will be difficult to beat, arriving off the back of her dominant victories in both the 800m and 1 500m at the Commonwealth Games. Athletics officials have made multiple attempts over the last decade to stop Caster Semenya from running. This has been her response pic.twitter.com/nS79Z3GUpf A total of 17 reigning world and Olympic champions will gather in Doha to help kick off the competition, which gets underway for the ninth straight year in the Qatari capital, and with it the chase for a piece of the series’ US$8-million (R105-million) prize money purse. READ: ANC slams IAAF regulations as grossly unfair, unjust, blatantly racist At the moment Semenya's chief competition appears to be Gudaf Tsegay of Ethiopia, the 2016 world indoor bronze medallist and world Under-20 indoor record-holder, Kenyan Winny Chebet, a world indoor 1 500m finalist, Rababe Arafi of Morocco, a world and Olympic 1 500m finalist, and Eunice Sum of Kenya, the 2013 world 800m champion. #wcw-- my inspiration, my role model, the reason why i do what i do now, i have no words to describe you.#thegreatest ❤ pic.twitter.com/JXODLABJ2a No appearance will be as eagerly anticipated as that of Qatar athlete Mutaz Essa Barshim, who will defend home turf for the first time not only as the reigning world champion but as the 2017 World Athlete of the Year as well. READ: Sports minister calls on South Africans to rally behind Semenya The 26-year-old was undefeated in 11 competitions last year; one of those came in Doha, his first at his home Diamond League meeting. In the 3000m steeplechase, 2014 world junior champion Barnabas Kipyego and Hillary Kipsang Yego are the men to beat. Caster Semenya's level of focus! What a force! #CasterSemenya #HandsoffCastersemenya pic.twitter.com/WDyBf8w5T9 A pair of non-Diamond races will round out the programme. Moroccan Abdelaati Iguider and Kenyans Bethwell Birgen and Collins Cheboi are the fastest in the field, arriving with sub-3:30 credentials. African News Agency