JOHANNESBURG –South African cricket star AB de Villiers confirmed his retirement from international cricket on Wednesday. The star batsman said he was “tired” and it was an opportunity to give the other guys a chance. The decision comes into effect immediately. The former Proteas captain posted a video on Twitter confirming his retirement. I’ve made a big decision today pic.twitter.com/In0jyquPOK Cricket South Africa President, Chris Nenzani said on the CSA website that De Villiers is one of the all-time greats of South African cricket. "What is probably more important is the inspiration he has been to his teammates whether playing at international or domestic level and the wonderful role model he has been to all our aspiring youngsters. It goes without saying that he is going to be greatly missed wherever international cricket is played. We thank him for the contribution he has made to South African cricket and specifically to make the Standard Bank Proteas world leaders and we wish him and his family everything of the best in his future endeavours.” WATCH: 'Spiderman' de Villiers defies gravity with stunning catch CSA Acting Chief Executive, Thabang Moroe, says it is a disappointing decision but one that is respected. “AB has been a colossus on the world stage for well over a decade and we are indeed grateful that most of this time he has been wearing the colours of our beloved Standard Bank Proteas. We all have our standout memories of his career and they are all very happy ones".  "I think particularly of the way he was embraced by the whole of India when he led the Proteas to their ODI Series victory in India a few years ago. He has captained the Proteas with distinction in all the international formats and his many achievements include making our first double century in a Test in India in 2008 and being a key member of our Test side when they scored their first ever away series wins in England and Australia and ascended to the No. 1 ranking in 2012." "His ability to improvise has made him known as Mr. 360 degrees in white ball cricket and we will never ever forget those remarkable innings that earned him the fastest 50. 100 and 150 in ODI cricket. We are immensely grateful for what he has meant to South African cricket in all its constituencies and we wish him and his family everything of the best for the future", Moroe added. eNCA