JOHANNESBURG - A suspected property hijacker and 13 undocumented immigrants were arrested in Marshalltown, Johannesburg on Friday during a crime-prevention operation at five hijacked and "bad" properties in the inner city, Mayor Herman Mashaba said. The undocumented immigrants and the suspected property hijacker were detained at the Johannesburg Central Police Station and were expected to appear in the Johannesburg Magistrate’s Court on Monday, he said. The city would also engage the Home Affairs Department to ensure that those detained were properly processed. Those who qualified for asylum should be speedily issued with the relevant legal papers, Mashaba said on Saturday. The operation was led by the city’s Group Forensic and Investigation Services (GFIS) Unit in conjunction with the South African Police Service (SAPS), the Home Affairs Department, Johannesburg metro police, emergency management services and the city’s environmental health, housing, citizen relationship, and urban management and social development departments. Twenty-four hijacked properties had so far been handed back to their rightful owners, said Mashaba. About 300 buildings had been confirmed as hijacked in the city and audits had been conducted on some 500 "bad" buildings, 24 of which belonged to the city. Sixteen property hijackers had been arrested to date, Mashaba said. READ: Joburg to take firm action on hijacked buildings "Criminals must know that they might run but there is no place for them to hide in Johannesburg. The city will not leave any stone unturned when dealing with criminal activities within its area of jurisdiction, and we will continue to intensify the raids at these bad and hijacked properties with the assistance of the SAPS and other law enforcement agencies," he said. "It is essential that we bring back the rule of law in our city and take it back from criminal elements, such as landlords who take advantage of desperate people and house them under deplorable conditions. "We are committed to ensuring that we stop the rot in our Inner city and make it a prosperous and inclusive place for our people to live, work, and play in. I would like to thank all the role-players involved in [Friday's] successful operation, especially the SAPS for their continued support," Mashaba said. He encouraged people to report any fraud and corrupt activities through the city's 24-hour tip-off hotline, 0800-002-587, or visit the GFIS offices at 48 Ameshoff Street in Braamfontein. African News Agency