CAPE TOWN - A group of Democratic Alliance members protested outside the Western Cape High Court for the case of ousted mayor Patricia de Lille's case against the party on Friday morning. De Lille alleged that some of the protesters who shouted "De Lille must fall" as she entered the courtroom were paid to be there. She claimed on Thursday that she received calls from other DA activists that they were instructed to protest against her. DA staff, constituencies and councillors were also instructed to fill taxis with people that do not like me and pay for their food and R50 stipend per protestor. Disgusting! One protester confirmed to eNCA that she was offered food and transport by her local councillor to go and protest against the former mayor. pic.twitter.com/qk1mJ66a8t De Lille's legal team on Friday argued the party and its federal bodies did not strictly comply with proper procedures and the rules of natural justice when it came to the decision to axe the veteran politician. Johan de Waal, for De Lille, is making out a case in the high court where the former mayor is seeking retain her post at least until May 25 when her legal challenge to the validity of her removal from office by the DA will be heard. De Waal told the court the clause in the DA Constitution relied upon to remove her was "vague, capable of being abused", and accordingly inconsistent with section 19 (3) of the South African Constitution. "None of these clauses have ever been invoked against any member but a public representative that the DA wanted to get rid of." De Lille is fighting to keep her job as the mayor after her membership was rescinded by the party on Tuesday. She was then removed as the city's mayor and deputy mayor Ian Nielson was appointed to act on the position. WATCH: De Lille says DA offered her MP job to quit as mayor De Lille's axing from the party followed a radio interview in which she seemingly expressed her intention to resign from the party. #PatriciaDeLille De Waal asks “what if someone says I say I’ll resign from the DA when I’m 70 years old?”He also cites Maimane declaring he will resign if the DA doesn’t deliver and Dianne Kohler-Barnard’s declaration that if need be, she’d resign, following her social media post The Independent Electoral Commission has since put a hold on advertising the mayoral post, pending the outcome of the court proceedings. -Additional reporting ANA eNCA