PRETORIA - Sport and Recreation Minister Tokozile Xasa on Monday released the 2016/17 Eminent Persons Group (EPG) Transformation report in Pretoria. According to the minister, the annual EPG audits to date have shown that more than 50 percent of sports federations have reported senior and underage representative teams and high-performance pipelines featuring demographic black African profiles well below 50 percent. It is possible that some of these federations could be faced with longer-term sustainability challenges if this issue is not more proactively dealt with. The purpose of the Sports Transformation Charter is to level the playing fields that enable the majority of South Africans to have equitable access and opportunity to participate and achieve in all areas and at all levels of sport. READ: CSA to meet Mbalula over transformation Xasa said special focus will be given to township and rural schools through new community-based sports structures. “Many of our generic black cricketers have proven that they are not tokens of transformation or a replacement of a white face with a black face." "The inclusion of Hashim Amla, Kagiso Rabada, JP Duminy, Lungi Ngidi, Vernon Philander, Temba Bavuma, Robin Peterson and many other cricketers have made South Africans see themselves in the Proteas, and the demographic profile of cricket supporters is starting to reflect that of our country.” "The inclusion of all South African demographics is not just a moral issue but it's the core of the very survival of sport, in particular, the white-dominated sport.” Sports DG Alec Moemi: most successful sports team is the Springbok 7s, so no truth to talk that Transformation weakens teams. #EPG2018 DG Alec Moemi: more to sport than simply counting the number of black faces on the sporting field. Have to question things like procurement of those players. #EPG2018 Xasa further stated that demographic change within the under-18 population grouping is intimately linked to the state of school sport in the country. Audit reports over the past 4 years have suggested that an effective school sports system, the ultimate source of sport’s human capital, will be the definitive platform on which to transform SA sport from a dominant minority representation position to a majority inclusive reality. "It has been shown that the existing school sports system has become the Achilles heel of South African sport for a number of complex reasons." “Rugby is succeeding in transformation process and we’re pleased with the outcomes of the EPG report,” said Jurie Roux, CEO of SA Rugby.
		“We’re proud of fact that rugby was top performing federation from the 5 sports that were part of pilot project in terms of transformation" Roux said that the report highlighted that the greatest challenge to South African sports federations – rugby included – was the state of school sport. “The report notes that only eight percent of learners in South Africa’s 25 000 public schools have any kind of access to sport." The Demographic representation in national senior male teams of athletics, cricket, football, volleyball, boxing and table tennis have all achieved the charter target with netball, chess, gymnastics, hockey and rugby moving in the right direction to achieve this interim milestone. The progress of black demographic profile: Xasa said the detailed report released on Monday shows that transformation, as measured in terms of the 5 dimensions of the transformation charter, is taking place, proving once again the value of Hewlett Packard's adage ‘that only those things that get measured get done. eNCA