LONDON – Newlyweds Prince Harry and Meghan thanked everyone who took part in the celebrations of their wedding on Saturday, as their Kensington Palace residence published three official wedding photographs. "The Duke and Duchess of Sussex would like to thank everyone who took part in the celebrations of their wedding on Saturday," the palace said in a statement. "They feel so lucky to have been able to share their day with all those gathered in Windsor and also all those who watched the wedding on television across the UK, Commonwealth, and around the world," it said. The Duke and Duchess of Sussex have released three official photographs taken on their wedding day by photographer Alexi Lubomirski. #RoyalWedding pic.twitter.com/OUYdBVXjls The Couple are joined by The Queen, The Duke of Edinburgh, The Prince of Wales, The Duchess of Cornwall, Ms. Doria Ragland, The Duke & Duchess of Cambridge and the Bridesmaids & Pageboys, including Prince George & Princess Charlotte, in The Green Drawing Room, Windsor Castle. Some 100,000 people came for the ceremony in Windsor, west of London and it was watched live globally, including by 29 million people in the US alone. The new royal couple said they were "delighted" with the official portraits taken by Alexi Lubomirski and thanked the public for their "generous messages of support". READ: Harry and Meghan to go back to work after lavish wedding One photo shows the couple with Harry's grandmother Queen Elizabeth II, her husband Prince Philip, and their son Prince Charles, the heir to the throne. In another, the newlyweds pose with all the page boys and bridesmaids who took part in the wedding, including Prince George, who is third in line to the throne. The Duke and Duchess of Sussex are surrounded by their Bridesmaids and Pageboys in The Green Drawing Room of Windsor Castle. #RoyalWedding pic.twitter.com/VR6f47pTJX The third shows the couple alone in black and white. The Duke and Duchess of Sussex were also photographed on the East Terrace, Windsor Castle. Their Royal Highnesses would like to thank everyone for their kind wishes and sharing in their special day #RoyalWedding pic.twitter.com/8Pu9HXtP4s As a member of the royal family, Meghan now has her own page on the official royal.uk website which carries a short biography focusing on her support for social justice and women's empowerment causes. "I am proud to be a woman and a feminist," Meghan, now the Duchess of Sussex, said on the site. The biography mentioned that she campaigned to change the wording on a TV advert that used sexist language when she was just 11 years old and volunteered at a soup kitchen in Los Angeles as a teenager. There is little mention, however, of her acting career, including her role as savvy paralegal Rachel Zane in the US drama series Suits. IN PICTURES: Red carpet meets royal wedding The description of Meghan as a proud feminist prompted press speculation that she may challenge the royal family's tradition of not getting involved in politically sensitive subjects. The Daily Mail said Meghan would "take the royals in a striking new direction" but also voiced caution. "She must be careful that her enthusiasm for these causes doesn't allow her to be pulled into the political fray. To survive, the monarchy must remain scrupulously neutral," it said in an editorial. AFP