JOHANNESBURG – President Cyril Ramaphosa is not holy, DA leader Mmusi Maimane said on Monday. The party reviewed Ramaphosa's first 100 days in office. READ: ANC must bid corruption goodbye: Ramaphosa Maimane said it should not be forgotten that Ramaphosa was part of former president Jacob Zuma's cabinet. "I think we could elect anybody, and I think you can conclude that South Africans will feel much more optimistic just by virtue of where we were, but what we need to realise is that the view that Mr Ramaphosa is suddenly angelic and is flown from somewhere is amiss because he was the deputy president in Zuma's administration for a number of years," said Maimane. Ramaphosa must account for things that took place during Zuma's reign, said Maimane. WATCH: Irate Ramaphosa loses his cool with DA's Steenhuisen "I welcome and I want people to come and invest in our country, we must grow our economy, but what we must not do is use the contrast of Cyril Ramaphosa, I think anybody will feel optimistic on that basis," he said. "#Ramaphosa100days have been underwhelming, as South Africans have rightfully expected much more from the President.
		
		We remain stuck in a jobs crisis, while our country is not safe from crime, & our politicians continue to commit acts of corruption & nepotism." - @MmusiMaimane pic.twitter.com/04CvbLFgmt "Ramaphosa is governing on a fragile, compromised mandate, & therefore will never be able to effect change that will turn our nation around, eradicate corruption, create millions of jobs, make our country safe, & fix our broken education system." - @MmusiMaimane #Ramaphosa100days During #SONA2018, President Ramaphosa committed to cutting the bloated cabinet. To date, he has failed to do so.
		
		The 35 ministers and 37 deputy ministers will – in salary earnings alone – cost our country R163.5 million this year.#Ramaphosa100dayshttps://t.co/RcMIBa3vxu If President Ramaphosa is serious about tackling corruption, he should ensure the independence of the NPA by Immediately appointing a National Director of Public Prosecutions with the ability to restore the integrity of the NPA.#Ramaphosa100days eNCA