JOHANNESBURG – In the wake of numerous incidents involving the disappearance of children, Police in Mpumalanga are pleading for the community to help in fighting the scourge in the province. Thirteen-year-old Katlego Marite was playing with his two friends when he was kidnapped at Frangipani Street Tasbetpark Extension 3 on Sunday afternoon. This comes at a time when police are still investigating the murder of 11-year-old Lerato Nkutha at Embalenhle, near Secunda two weeks ago. Nkutha was sent to a nearby shop, but she did not come back home. “Her family reported her as missing after having looked for her without any success,” Police spokesperson Brigadier Leonard Hlathi said. “Her lifeless body was found two days later in the yard of a certain house.” #sapsMP #SAPS members are looking for info that could lead to the discovery of Katlego Marite(13) who was kidnapped yesterday from Witbank whilst playing with his friends. Anyone with info to contact #CrimeStop on 08600 10111. SWhttps://t.co/juPRuGZHHL pic.twitter.com/luLmuUzfIF No arrests have been made in both the Nkutha and Marita cases. Cases of missing, kidnapped and murdered children seem to be increasing in the province, and few have been finalised. “The province, if not the whole country is still reeling from shock after, 13 year old Gabisile Shabane, who was living with albinism, and her 15 month old niece, who was probably mistaken for another toddler who had the same condition (albinism), were kidnapped and later found murdered at Vosman, near Witbank,” Hlathi said. READ: What to do when kidnappers demand a ransom Earlier in the year, 16-year-old Amogelang Elsa Rammone from Mokgobong section in Mmametlake was reported missing. Rammone who was doing grade 10 at Khamane High School called her mother, only for the call to be terminated. That was the last time she was seen or spoken to. Two months later, 10-year-old Bawinile Khoza’s lifeless body was found dumped in an open veld at Snake Park section Mmametlhake, near Siyabuswa after she had gone missing from her parental home. “The victim, whose body had sustained serious injuries and had her tongue cut off, had disappeared two days earlier from her parental home,” according to Hlathi. Hlathi says there have been other incidents where children had wandered off and were later found dead in rivers and disused sewage systems in various places in the province. eNCA