LIVERPOOL – Well it doesn't seem as if it will be a long time before the UFC returns to Liverpool, having sold out 11,000 Capacity Echo Arena in the sports-mad city on the Mersey within an hour where scouse MMA fans blew the roof off as they witnessed their hometown hero Darren Till narrowly outpoint Number 1 contender, Stephen Thompson over five closely-fought rounds. In fact, it was the venues highest-grossing sports event ever at $1.3-million and with some tickets changing hands at £2000 (R33,400) it's not hard to see why UFC President Dana White is keen upon a swift saunter back to North-West England. "Yes, we will be coming back to Liverpool. I wanted to do this fight here... this is the fight that I wanted really bad. The atmosphere, nobody supports their people like the English and the Irish, it’s incredible, it’s very cool to see,” White said. Pretty much all of the success of the event was predicated on the appearance of Till, without a doubt the City's biggest ever MMA star and with the bombshell announcement this week of UK MMA trailblazer Michael Bispings' retirement, the sports largest global promotion has found it immensly fortuitous to have a sublimely-skilled and highly-enigmatic replacement in such a key growth territory as Darren Till. Which isn't to say the 24-year old welterweight made it all smooth sailing. Till weighed-in the day before the bout 3.5lbs over the non-title fight limit of 171, and had to weigh no more than 188lbs on fight night and forfeit 30 percent of his purse to his opponent. The fight itself was a cagey affair as one would expect from two counter-strikers and whilst it was no robbery, most cageside commentators scored the 5-round standoff in the Americans favour. The fact that every glancing strike from the Scouser was cheered heartily and he scored the most telling blow by knocking-down Thompson in the fifth perhaps persuaded the judges to give Till the nod, but your correspondent scored it 3 rounds to 2 for Thompson. But perhaps that was karmic justice for the fans still nursing heartbreak following the Champions League defeat the night before. In the ensuing press conference, both athletes professed the opinion that they each deserved the victory, it was a classy Till who believed that his vanquished should get the next title shot rather than himself on account of his own failure to make weight; “I think Stephen deserves a go with the interim more than I do myself,” Till said. “I know I’ve just beat him in a close fight, but give it to Stephen. He made weight and is still No. 1 and has beat more guys than me. Give it to him. I’m a realist. I’m not going to sit here and bull (expletive) anyone. I’m not going to bull (expletive) myself, and I’m certainly not going to bull (expletive) you. Give it to Stephen.” Thompson was equally magnanimous in defeat, giving props to his opponent and thanking the famous city for its renowned hospitality whilst professing a desire to return to fight in the UK in the near future. Both fighters also warmed to the idea of a rematch. But it will be the UFC who should be most interested in running it back, not even half-way through 2018 and with two marquee events in the UK having proven the financial viability of crossing the pond with increasing frequency, a future champion like Till is money in the bank for the UFC new owners looking not only for some kind of return to their $4.3-billion investment, but for a superstar to propel the sport into the UK following in the footsteps of the truly remarkable Michael Bisping. Nor would you get much truck from the good people of Liverpool coming to understand what the rest of us already know - kick away the ball and strap on the gloves. Because football is the past and fighting is the future. MMA is taking over, next stop: Madrid. eNCA