SPONSORED: In the last few months the community of Cape Town has been working to change its water usage behaviour due to its water crisis. The collective efforts of the Department of Water and Sanitation and Sunlight 2in1 in creating a #watersmartnation were realised as the city came together at the V&A Waterfront Amphitheatre to commemorate #WorldWaterDay. “We are very close to the water issues considering the type of products we produce therefore we are always thinking of innovative ways to use water wisely. With this initiative and the rising plight of water shortages, we feel it is prudent that we extend our knowledge, and partner with relevant initiatives and individuals to really deepen education about wise water usage,” says Lethepu Matshaba, Vice President, Homecare Southern Africa at Unilever. “The sunlight 2in1 is a classic example of how we are not only talking about saving water, but we are employing technology to demonstrate our commitment to a water smart nation”. As part of the initiative thirty five 5000 litre JOJO tanks, were handed over to the Save Our Schools NPO. These much-needed tanks were handed over to Shelley Humphreys, Executive Director Save Our Schools NPO by Yusuf Abramjee and Ndileka Mandela, – Humphreys is passionate about providing sustainable water access to the community of Cape Town, which is the main mandate of her organisation. “As Sunlight 2in1 we want to continue the conversation of preserving water, not only in Cape Town but in the entire country and we hope the various interactions will help to change behaviour of people in their day-to-day lives” concluded Lerato Dumisa, Assistant Brand Manager at Unilever. With the city converging on the V&A Water Front to view the innovations displayed as part of the exhibition, the event, hosted by Katlego Maboe of The Expresso Show on SABC 3, attracted all age groups who were also entertained by South African singer-songwriter and recording artist, Amanda Black. Without interventions on the nation’s current water use, the Department of Water and Sanitation estimates that the national water deficit is sitting at around 17%.  With the country being overly reliant on surface water, and our water mix not being sufficiently diversified, our water management continues to be a challenge when we look at the impact of climate change on the countries rainfall patterns, subsequently our dam/surface water levels. What does this mean for the ordinary South African? With scarce water supplies and a growing population, South Africans must change the way they live and consume water. Many consumer products will need to be reconceptualised to meet the challenge. South Africans use 61% more water than the world average. Unilever has found that around 85% of that water use often occurs when consumers use water in their homes. While water usage in the home is necessary for hygiene and daily chores, its wise use is still an aspect that many across the nation struggle with. After all, if water is still coming out of our taps, are we really in a drought? As a water dependent product, Sunlight 2in1, has championed water saving in laundry and answering this question. Through its #WaterSmartNation roadshows people were helped to make better use of the limited water supply – thus creating water smart households.  This innovate approach to water education resulted in enthusiasm around water saving grow as the realities of the drought and its impact on daily water usage continue to be felt. Having engaged with our partners, the Unilever Centre for Environmental Water Quality (UCEWQ) to develop a behaviour change programme on water creating a lasting impact on consumer water usage, we have seen an increase in water saving ambassadors and #watersmartnation champions within the communities.