JOHANNESBURG - Ajax Cape Town was charged with five charges of misconduct arising from the club fielding striker Tendai Ndoro in various matches. The Arbitrator also heard an appeal by Polokwane City FC against the fielding of Ndoro in their match as well as a Protest by SuperSport United. READ: Ajax Cape Town relegated, guilty on Ndoro matter William Mokhari ruled that Ajax Cape Town were guilty of breaching SAFA and FIFA Regulations relating to their fielding of Ndoro. Polokwane City’s appeal and Supersport United’s Protest were also upheld. Adv. Mokhari SC awarded the matches played by Ajax Cape Town against Platinum Stars, Polokwane City and Supersport United to those clubs with a 3-0 score line. pic.twitter.com/tKASLUPnMJ In addition, Ajax Cape Town was fined a total of R 350 000.00. Ndoro was sentenced to a two-match suspension for his misconduct. Ajax Cape Town was ordered to pay the costs (including the costs of senior counsel) of the other parties involved in the arbitration. #AbsaPrem Revised Log Standings pic.twitter.com/zFoPYrI6Gd Platinum Stars Football Club will now participate in the Promotion play-offs as envisaged in the NSL Handbook read with the Play-off Rules on the dates. The scheduled fixture in Thohoyandou on Wednesday, 16 May between Black Leopards and Platinum Stars will go ahead. Ajax Cape Town is going to buy a status from one of the PSL teams. No way they are going to play in the NFD. Mark my words.. This Tendai Ndoro, Ajax Cape Town and Platinum Stars matter now means Pirates have to play Supersport United in MTN 8. We were guaranteed semi-final vs Arrows pic.twitter.com/2UfsxTxH4P Supersport United moved to 7th place and arrows to 8th place this means amazulu are out of top 8 ------------ joke league PSL shame Ajax cape town ---- Tendai Ndoro and Ajax Cape Town going through the most ---- pic.twitter.com/nAXVYKVrVn Magtig! This is a mess. Ajax Cape Town was already in Thohoyandou preparing for tomorrow's game against Leopards and now they must pack bags and go prepare for life in the NFD and now Platinum Stars must quickly swim to Venda for tomorrow's game. #TendaiNdoro pic.twitter.com/apoUe8Kesq With Ajax Cape Town found guilty of fielding Tendai Ndoro, they'll be automatically relegated and Platinum Stars will play playoffs.
		
		Imagine Platinum Stars after getting a second chance to come back to PSL and loose again, and get relegated. pic.twitter.com/rM3DT6ermx eNCA