PRETORIA – Government will engage ratings agency S&P about its concerns while taking steps to restore South Africa's investment grade credit rating – a top priority, the National Treasury said. "Government notes S&P’s decision to affirm South Africa’s long-term foreign and local currency debt ratings at "BB" and "BB+" respectively, and to maintain the stable outlook," the Treasury said in a statement. READ: Rating agencies S&P and Moody’s review SA's credit rating According to S&P, the rating affirmation was underpinned by the following drivers: - "Despite upward revisions, South Africa's economic growth remains tentative, and government's debt burden continues on a rising path.” The ratings agency indicated that “South Africa’s ratings are constrained by the weak pace of economic growth, particularly on a per capita basis, as well as its large fiscal debt burden and sizable contingent liabilities”; and - “After the recent political transition, authorities are pursuing key economic and social reforms, but we consider the economic and social challenges the country faces as considerable.” The Treasury said the stable outlook reflected S&P’s view that “economic growth will pick up modestly over the next year, while government debt will remain above 50 percent of GDP. The outlook also reflects government commitment to pursue economic and social reforms”. READ: Fitch keeps SA at junk, outlook stable According to S&P, “the ratings are supported by the country's monetary flexibility, large domestic financial sector, and deep capital markets, alongside moderate external debt, with very low levels of external debt denominated in foreign currency”. The Treasury said government noted S&P’s assessment of challenges and opportunities the country faced in the immediate to long-term and was determined to achieve improved ratings in the period ahead. Since the elective conference of the ANC in December 2017, both business and consumer confidence improved. The February 2018 budget further supported the improved investment climate in the country. READ: Rand weakens after Fitch run may have been overdone Treasury said it will take steps "to improve business confidence even further, achieving higher economic growth, fast-tracking the SoC (state-owned companies) reform agenda, and ultimately restoring the country’s investment-grade credit rating". "In pursuit of this agenda, government will enhance its collaboration with business, labour, and civil society in positioning South Africa as an attractive investment destination while also creating an enabling policy environment for inclusive economic growth," the National Treasury said. African News Agency