JOHANNESBURG - The three-day ANC national executive committee (NEC) meeting was unable to select a successor to former North West Premier Supra Mahumapelo, opting to consult further before naming anyone. ANC secretary-general Ace Magashule said three days was not enough to sort out organisational matters and that the governing party's top brass opted for a special NEC meeting to attend to problematic provinces such as North West and KwaZulu-Natal. "We want to ensure that when we engage, we come up with solutions and resolve matters once and for all. We felt that we needed more time to further engage...you do not rush to come up with solutions," he told reporters at the party’s Luthuli House headquarters in central Johannesburg on Tuesday. WATCH: ANC NEC gives feedback on weekend meeting The three suggested candidates forwarded by the North West provincial executive committee were not adequately discussed due to lack of time, he added. Media reports suggested the candidates were former North West education MEC OJ Tselapedi, agriculture MEC Manketsi Tlhape and acting ANC provincial secretary-general Susan Dantjie. The appointment of any one of them might be seen as an installation of a Mahumapelo proxy. Embattled Mahumapelo finally stepped down as premier last week, saying he had decided to take "early retirement". Mahumapelo was under pressure to step down after residents in Mahikeng went on the rampage in April, calling for him to resign over allegations of corruption. The widespread protests shut down the province's capital, Mahikeng, where shops were looted and properties damaged. READ: SA won't be united unless land issue addressed: Ramaphosa A ministerial task team led by Minister in the Presidency Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma investigated governance issues in the North West, resulting in President Cyril Ramaphosa placing the province under the control of the national government. Before he threw in the towel, Mahumapelo rescinded his previous resignation and then chaired a provincial executive meeting to decide his fate. He then put himself on special leave and appointed corruption-accused finance MEC Wendy Nelson as acting premier. Mahumapelo, the man also known as "Black Jesus" among his supporters remains ANC provincial chairperson. He was appointed premier in 2014 by former president Jacob Zuma. African News Agency