LOS ANGELES – Deadpool might not consider himself a superhero, but its latest instalment is off to a powerful start. The Marvel Comics film from 20th Century Fox debuted in North American with $125-million (R1.6-billion) in 4,349 locations. That wasn't enough to match the debut of its predecessor, 2016's Deadpool, which had the biggest opening ever for an R-rated film with $132.4-million. The Ryan Reynolds-starring bowed overseas with $176-million for a global weekend total of $301-million. Although it debuted underestimates, Deadpool 2's launch was nothing to complain about. It still secured the second-best opening for an R-rated film, as well as the third-biggest debut of the year behind Marvel blockbusters Avengers: Infinity War and Black Panther. It also secured Fox its second-highest opening weekend in history. .@VancityReynolds wants Wolverine for a #Deadpool movie... but that all depends on @RealHughJackman https://t.co/O1U0MzJIFG pic.twitter.com/SmuIAUNiq0 The sequel is still boasting a promising critical consensus, with an 84 percent Rotten Tomatoes rating and an A CinemaScore. Deadpool 2's strong debut is a testament to Reynolds, according to Fox's president of domestic distribution Chris Aronson. "I just can't say enough about him," Aronson said. "Not just the character, but promoting it. I feel great about this opening." Its opening was enough to crush Avengers: Infinity War's reign on the domestic box office. After securing the No 1 spot for three weeks, the Disney and Marvel superhero tentpole dropped to second place. Its fourth-weekend haul was still impressive, reeling in $29-million from 4,002 screens. Infinity War's domestic tally currently sits at $595.4-million. Infinity War was followed by Paramount Pictures' new release, Book Club. The romantic comedy – starring Diane Keaton, Jane Fonda, Candice Bergen, and Mary Steenburgen – came in slightly ahead of expectations, earning $12.3-million on 2,781 screens. The weekend's other newcomer, Global Road Entertainment's Show Dogs, landed in sixth place, only digging up $6-million from 3,212 locations. The family-friendly comedy garnered an A CinemaScore. Its Rotten Tomatoes critical score didn't fare quite as well, averaging a 26 percent. Rounding out the top five are two film's sophomore frames. Warner Bros' Life of the Party rallied in $7.5-million from 3,656 locations. Domestically, it has made $30.9-million. Universal's Breaking In secured $6.5-million on 2,537 screens. In two weeks, it's earned $28.8-million. In the speciality market, Focus Features' Pope Francis - A Man of His Word opened with $480,000 on 346 screens for a per-screen average of $1,389. READ: Hollywood glitters as 'Star Wars' stages 'Solo' premiere RBG, the documentary on Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, is still holding strong. In its third weekend, it expanded to 375 locations for a three-day total of $1.28-million. That's a per screen average of $3,413. Magnolia Pictures and Participant Media co-produced the film with Storyville Films and CNN Films. Thanks to a trio of superhero powerhouses, the domestic box office is up 6.3 percent from 2017, according to comScore. The weekend-to-date is up a staggering 62.9 percent, compared to 2017 when Alien: Covenant was the No 1 film. "A crowded powerhouse of a mid-May weekend benefitted from a very diverse lineup of newcomers to appeal to almost every taste and demographic," Paul Dergarabedian, box office analysis at comScore, said. Reuters