CAPE TOWN - The man who admits murdering Cape Town toddler Courtney Pieters apologised to her mother in the Western Cape High Court on Tuesday. Mortimer Saunders asked that his counsel tell Juanita Pieters that he is sorry for what he did to her child. Pieters, after a long pause, and looking right at Saunders, said: "I have forgiven Mortimer but I will never forget." #MortimerSaunders Callitz closes saying it’s his instruction to tell Juanita that Mortimer apologizes for what he’s done. Juanita says she’s forgiven him but she cannot forget. No re-examination On Monday, Saunders had admitted to killing the toddler after giving the child ant poison. Pieters earlier told the court she recognised Saunders as the man who was seen on CCTV footage dumping the body of her daughter, but admitted that she denied knowing him as she was in "shock". When she was asked by police if she knew the man who could be seen in footage dumping the little girl's body in nearby Epping Industria she lied and said she did not recognise him. #MortimerSaunders objection overruled. “I was shocked when I saw this photo. I lied to Captain Taylor and said I don’t know this man. I didn’t want to believe that it was Mortimer Saunders. As we’ve come to know Morty, he was a decent man. “ #MortimerSaunders “Morty was a quiet person. Morty loved children and he really loved Courtney.” She told the court that police had called Saunders to come to the police station and that by this stage she and her boyfriend, Aaron Fourie, who is Courtney's father, had already seen the footage of Saunders. "I was very shocked to see these photos and I lied to Captain Taylor and said I don’t know this man," Pieters said on Tuesday. "I could not believe it was Mortimer because, as we know, he is such a decent person and I did not expect it.” On Monday, Pieters had told the court that Fourie and Saunders had grown up together and were very good friends but that she and Saunders did not get on very well. On Tuesday, she recalled the days after 4 May, when Courtney was reported missing, saying she and members of the Elsies River community had searched neigbouring areas such as Goodwood and Ruyterwacht. “I am not sure where Mortimer was when we were searching," she said. "I am not sure if he joined the search or not.” WATCH: Poppie's mother, stepfather sent to prison for life Pieters said she was at home on 13 May when the toddler's body was found and she and Fourie were fetched to go to the police station. “We got there and a policeman came to say a body was found but the parents couldn’t go.” On the Sunday (May 14) after the body was found, Pieters and Fourie were once again fetched by Captain Taylor, this time for DNA samples. “We got there and Captain Taylor asked that we call Mortimer to come to the police station,” she said. Pieters said she did so and Saunders asked her: “What do they say? Who is it?” She said she told him not to worry and that he should just come as they will talk when he gets to the police station. At this point, Pieters and Fourie had already seen footage of Saunders dumping the toddler's body and she said she could not believe it and due to shock told Captain Taylor that she did not know the man in the footage. “He (Saunders) was a very silent person and Mortimer loved Courtney very much.” Pieters further testified that Saunders interacted with both her seven-year-old son and Courtney. African News Agency