LONDON - An English translation of the Polish novel "Flights" has been named the winner of the prestigious Man Booker International Prize. The novel by Olga Tokarczuk, translated by Jennifer Croft, interweaves narratives of travel with explorations of the human body. We won. https://t.co/pdnqtA7cI7 It won the £50,000 (R847,000) prize after coming top of a shortlist of six titles. The money will be split between the author and translator. "Tokarczuk is a writer of wonderful wit, imagination and literary panache," said head judge Lisa Appignanesi as the winner was announced at a ceremony in London on Tuesday. "In 'Flights', brilliantly translated by Jennifer Croft, by a series of startling juxtapositions she flies us through a galaxy of departures and arrivals, stories and digressions, all the while exploring matters close to the contemporary and human predicament – where only plastic escapes mortality," Appignanesi said. We’re delighted to announce that our #MBI2018 winner is Flights by Olga Tokarczuk, translated by @jenniferlcroft and published by @FitzcarraldoEds! Read more here: https://t.co/64tnsamKpo #FinestFiction pic.twitter.com/kXuVvreTwj "Flights" recounts a sheaf of stories on Tokarczuk’s theme, including the 17th-century tale of Dutch anatomist Philip Verheyen, who dissected and drew pictures of his own amputated leg and the 19th-century story of Chopin's heart as it makes the covert journey from Paris to Warsaw after his death. READ: American literary giant Philip Roth dies British paper The Guardian called the novel "a passionate and enchantingly discursive plea for meaningful connectedness, for the acceptance of ‘fluidity, mobility, illusoriness’" in its review of June 2017. The Financial Times wrote: "The story of a woman who is perpetually travelling is a philosophical tale for our frantic times." "The book’s prose is a lucid medium in which narrative crystals grow to an ideal size, independent structures not disturbing the balance of the whole," wrote Adam Mars-Jones in the London Review of Books. Tokarczuk is the author of eight novels and two short-story collections, while Croft is an accomplished translator of Polish, Spanish and Ukrainian. The Man Booker International Prize celebrates the English translations of works of international literature. AFP