CAPE TOWN - A penalty from Josh Stander kept Western Province unbeaten in the SuperSport Rugby Challenge with a tense 23-21 (half-time 15-0) victory over the Boland Cavaliers at Newlands in Cape Town on Saturday. The pivot kept his cool when it mattered most, slotting his second penalty of the afternoon with four minutes remaining on the clock to hand the defending champions a narrow victory over their neighbours to maintain their unbeaten record in the competition. The home side dominated the first 40 minutes, scoring two tries through scrumhalf Herschel Jantjies to head into the changeroom with a 15-point cushion. Stander missed the conversion for the opening try, but landed the second and a penalty after Province dominated possession and territory in the opening 20 minutes. With Province camped in the Boland 22-metre area, the home side’s forwards produced a big scrum and after a few phases, Jantjies was able to dart over in the corner for the opening try with Stander missing the extra two points. He landed his first three-pointer 10 minutes later to extend Province’s lead to eight points. Fullback Tristan Leyds produced a brilliant piece of play to break the Boland line of defence on the halfway line and race away before offloading to Jantjies to score his second try of the afternoon, close to the poles, giving Stander an easy conversion attempt, but Province were reduced to 14 men when prop Alistair Vermaak was shown a yellow card shortly before half-time. Boland suddenly woke up in the second stanza and raced back into the game as the 14-men of Province went to sleep. With just five minutes gone in the second period, Boland flank Ludio Williams used his power to crash over to open Boland’s account. Fullback Jacquin Jansen landed the conversion to bring Boland within eight points of their hosts. But the home side produced some scintillating play with their wings combining well to score the third try of the day. Right wing Duncan Saal burst down the flank, drew a few defenders and then offloaded to his partner, Edwil van der Merwe who went diving over for another unconverted try to push Province 13 points ahead. Boland though did not give up with scrumhalf Jovelian de Koker going over for a try midway through the second stanza to bring the visitors to within six points of their more fancied hosts. Boland then caused some consternation for the home fans when left-wing Valentino Wellman raced over for an important score and with Jansen converting, the visitors scented a famous victory with just seven minutes remaining on the clock. But Province were awarded a penalty with four minutes left on the stadium clock and the flyhalf did not disappoint, landing the kick to give the home side victory to maintain their position at the top of the South section. Scorers Western Province – Tries: Herschel Jantjies (2), Edwill van der Merwe; Conversion: Josh Stander; Penalties: Stander (2). Boland – Tries: Ludio Williams, Jovelian de Koker, Valentino Wellman; Conversions: Jacquin Jansen (3). African News Agency