CAPE TOWN – Kaizer Chiefs are already on the lookout for a new head coach for next season, but they are not the only Premiership club that could also be set for a technical team overhaul. Steve Komphela quit his post just a couple of months shy of his three-year contract coming to an end, following a fan invasion at the Moses Mabhida Stadium last weejkend. READ: Kaizer Chiefs fans invade pitch, Komphela quits Changes also appear to be under way at Baroka FC. The Limpopo club, not yet safe from potential relegation, started the season with Kgoloko Thobejane in charge, before MacDonald Makhubedu took over in February. But Makhubedu now appears to have vacated his position, with technical director and legendary former Amakhosi midfielder Doc Khumalo having been on the bench for their most recent game, a 2-2 draw with Bloemfontein Celtic last weekend. SuperSport United, who like Baroka, Polokwane City and Ajax Cape Town, still have a relegation threat hanging over them, are also likely to be introducing a new coach next season, unless they decide they've seen enough in Kaitano Tembo (the caretaker coach after the departure of Eric Tinkler in March) to give him the job full time. Polokwane City coach Bernard Molekwa, who was this season promoted from assistant to head coach after Luc Eymael's departure, will be praying for a win against Chippa United in his side's final match of the season as he looks to steer the club clear of the promotion-relegation play-offs. Whether that will be enough to buy him another season in the job will remain to be seen – it's largely been an underwhelming season from Rise and Shine. One would expect that Ajax coach Muhsin Ertugral's job should be safe – the Turk arrived only at Christmas time, with the team already in big trouble. He's made no secret of his love of the Mother City, where he has a house, and is in his fourth spell with Ajax. However, if the Urban Warriors do get demoted to the National First Division, it will be interesting to see if Ertugral stays on and tries to rebuild the side. There are no other obvious names for coaches likely to face the axe, although in the volatile world of the PSL, it would be surprising if there were not any more changes. READ: Sleepless nights ahead for PSL relegation candidates Indeed, the only coaches whose positions look watertight are the championship-winning Pitso Mosimane, Milutin Sredojevic, who has transformed what had been a sorry-looking Orlando Pirates, and Fadlu Davids, whose achievements with Maritzburg United have been nothing short of sensational. The same could be said of Eymael at Free State Stars, although there remains talk that the Belgian could be set to take the Amakhosi job. The situation with last season's league champions Bidvest Wits is an intriguing one – Gavin Hunt managed to guide his team to Telkom Knockout honours towards the end of last year, but in the league, the Students have only just managed to avoid getting sucked into the relegation dog-fight and spent a considerable amount of time in the bottom two. Will Hunt decide he's achieved all he can with the Braamfontein outfit and needs a new challenge, or will he stay where he will be looking to bounce back with renewed vigour? SuperSport United, where he won three titles as a coach, will surely have Hunt's name on any potential shortlist. Meanwhile, Platinum Stars head coach Roger De Sa is also likely to keep his job, despite the North West club finishing bottom of the table. This is largely because De Sa is part of a consortium which bought the Dikwena franchise around the start of this year and are set to take over for next season. African News Agency