BRUSSELS - In Belgium, where hot, salty chips smeared with mayonnaise are a national institution, tampering with traditional "frites" sounds like a recipe for trouble. But the capital, Brussels, is giving a futuristic makeover to some of the official stalls from which the famous potato delicacies are sold to locals and tourists. Eight nondescript "fritkots" owned by city authorities will be decked out with dazzling mirrored facades and special lighting. City planners and operators alike say the upgrade will make the stalls -- which are due to reopen in late 2019 -- as memorably Belgian as the food they sell. Brussels planners launched a competition last year to find a new design for  the "Fritkots of the Future". "We thought, 'and what if we give a model?' -- a model that is identifiable just like the telephone booths of London," said Marion Lemesre, a senior economic affairs official for Brussels. READ: Save our fries! Belgians say EU spares national dish The issue is a serious one in Belgium, whose claim to have invented "frites" is disputed by its bigger neighbour France. Belgium's "fritkots" even hit the international headlines when German Chancellor Angela Merkel nipped out to one in the middle of an EU summit in Brussels after Brexit talks went on for too long. The design competition was won in January by Studio Moto, an architecture firm based in Ghent, a city in the northern Dutch-speaking part of Belgium. Studio Moto co-owners Mo Vandenberghe and Thomas Hick said their main goal was to maintain the identity of each individual chip shop. "People are a bit particular about their fritkots," Hick told AFP. He said the fritkot is "part of Belgian culture, Brussels culture, and replacing them is something sensitive, so we really had (to keep) in mind we couldn’t put something standardised". While all the stands will have the mirrored facade and lighting, each revamped fritkot is to have two colours unique to the location. One colour will be used for the sign on top of the fritkot, and the other will be for the interior tiling. Brussels has dozens of privately owned and operated fritkots, too, but only locations owned by the city of Brussels are set for remodelling, including the fritkot outside the Atomium museum, a key tourist draw, as well as Place de la Chapelle, near the city's famed antiques market. The city will also finance the creation of two new fritkot locations, one of which will be placed at another popular historic landmark, Mont des Arts, in the city centre. AFP