CAPE TOWN – Siya Kolisi’s appointment as Springbok captain continues to receive positive attention. The 26-year old made his debut for the Boks against Scotland in 2013 when Jean de Villiers was captain. De Villiers feels the decision to have Kolisi lead the Boks was the right one can only be good for the game. “The first Test he came on as a substitute but he ended up being the man of the match. So he certainly made use of the opportunity that he got. When he started off, obviously me being captain, he was a young guy. "But he’s turned into this unbelievable leader and I think he’s a kind of guy that really can inspire the whole nation. There’s a lot of, there’s a lot that he can provide, not only for the team but also for the country,” said De Villiers. READ: Profile: Kolisi to become first black Test skipper De Villiers and Kolisi were not just Bok teammates, but also teamed up at provincial and Super Rugby level for Western Province and the Stormers. “I think I’m very fortunate, I’ve known Siya since he made his debut for the Stormers and then, I was actually his roommate the week before he made his debut for South Africa. "To see the way that he has grown throughout the years, to see the father that he’s become, the husband and the rugby players and the leader that he’s become, has been fantastic. From day one, I knew that there was something special about him.” De Villiers' advice for Kolisi is that he should not put any undue pressure on himself and just continue to do what has brought him to this point in his career. READ: Rassie Erasmus names his first Springbok squad “I think, just have fun, do what you have been doing. He’s obviously been put in that position because (coach) Rassie (Erasmus) thinks that he can do the job and that he’s shown that I suppose values and skills that will be good enough to captain the Springboks. He knows what his strengths are and I think the most important thing would be to get the team behind him now, to create a team environment because no leader can have success without a backing of the individuals within this case, the rugby team.” The word "inspiration" appears to be the buzzword when speaking about Siya Kolisi. There is no doubt his coach will hope he inspires an improved Bok team to victory over England. eNCA