JOHANNESBURG – Tributes are pouring in for the late legendary photographer Sam Nzima, who died at the age of 83 on Saturday. Nzima is best known for taking the iconic photograph of a wounded Hector Pieterson during the 1976 youth uprisings, an image that was shown across the world. The photo earned him a spot in Time magazine’s list of the 100 most influential photographs ever taken. Just received the bad new that Bra Sam Nzima, the son of Bushbuckridge, is no more: Rest In Peace brother, you ran your race with dignity. pic.twitter.com/d1NvZIkggG A towering giant has fallen with the passing of legendary photographer uBaba Sam Nzima. In our darkest hour he risked his life & used his camera not just as a device to capture images, but as an effective tool to expose the brutal Apartheid regime & to tell our story. pic.twitter.com/m3OZAjr305 Watch: Late great photographer uBaba Sam Nzima, chronicles the story behind the monumental image he took of Hector Pieterson being carried by Mbuyisa Makhubu on June 16, 1976.
		
		(Video credit: Red Border Films & Time) pic.twitter.com/Gt7yQygHAD But, Nzima endured harassment by security police, who accused him of portraying South Africa in a bad light. He was forced to leave Soweto for his village of Lilydale in Mpumalanga and never again used the lens. President Cyril Ramaphosa expressed his condolences to Nzima's loved ones. "Mr Sam Nzima was one of a kind. His camera captured the full brutality of apartheid oppression on the nation’s psyche and history from the defiance campaign through to forced removals and the Soweto student uprisings," Ramaphosa said in a statement. The ANC said Nzima "belonged to a generation of fearless activist photojournalists who used the might of their lenses to tell truth to power. His generation courageously confronted the apartheid system and regime by ensuring that the stories of the oppressed masses who yearned for freedom in their lifetime are not relegated to the periphery of history." Meanwhile, Nzima's former deputy editor, Joe Latakgomo, said Nzima was among the frontline fighters using his camera to expose the brutality of apartheid police. Watch Latakgomo's full interview with eNCA below. eNCA