PARLIAMENT – The Presidency delivered its budget vote speech in Parliament on Wednesday. Ramaphosa was expected to outline progress on projects announced during his State of the Nation Address (Sona). BREAKING: President Ramaphosa signs proclamation of a Commission of Inquiry into SARS. #PresidencyBudget WATCH: DA reviews Ramaphosa's presidency "He will focus on the areas of economic renewal and job creation, the fight against corruption and the re-establishment of public confidence in the integrity of institutions of the state," the Presidency said in a statement. "President Ramaphosa will also continue to rally all South Africans to do anything they can in their walks of life or circles of influence to support and add impetus to the government's endeavours to build a prosperous and united society." Ramaphosa announces that half of his Presidential salary is being donated to a fund managed by the National Mandela Foundation. Calls on all able citizens to donate a portion of their salaries to Nelson Mandela Thuma Mina Fund. READ: Ramaphosa upbeat after meeting with Cosatu Minister in the Presidency responsible for Women, Bathabile Dlamini also input. Deputy President, David Mabuza did not attend the debate due to travel commitments. During the debate on the Presidency's budget, MPs from the EFF were asked to leave the House by the Deputy Speaker. EFF's @fanamokoena says the land is going to be occupied by our people. IFP's leader Mangosuthu Buthelezi says the Deputy Speaker must use his powers to deal with the situation in parliament. EFF MPs say they will occupy the land and it's the fact. #PresidencyBudget Gardee says Tsenoli is degenerating the house, they want a motion of no confidence against Tsenoli, they want Mbete back. Tsenoli calls sergeant in arms to remove the EFF MPs. They are chanting. #PresidencyBudget #OccupyTheLand EFF MPs are chanting in parliament. [WATCH] #PresidencyBudget: #EFF MPs kicked out of Parliament. Courtesy #DStv403 pic.twitter.com/bHPbevVZSX eNCA