JOHANNESBURG – The seven judges who will crown the new Miss South Africa have been named. They are television talk show host and radio DJ Anele Mdoda; marketer and author Khaya Dhlanga; businesswoman and media mogul Khanyi Dhlomo; entrepreneur and Top Billing presenter Janez Vermeiren; award-winning magazine editor Michelle van Breda; celebrity chef and TV personality Siba Mtongana; and Miss World 2014 Rolene Strauss. Strauss said she can appreciate the challenges of being Miss South Africa and competing on the international stage. “I will be looking for a strikingly beautiful woman who becomes more beautiful as you get to know her. Someone who is hardworking, selfless, resilient and handles difficult situations with ease and grace.” “Your competition is not the other 11 women," Mdoda advised the Top 12 finalists. "The task at hand is to shine as the best form of yourself. Show us why the crown has your name on it. Show us what your intent is. Win it on purpose.” Dhlomo said in South Africa's current socio-political climate, the country needs more self-assured, compassionate and intentional female voices. "The winner must most certainly be beautiful but, more importantly, she must have self-belief as well as a strong desire and personal plan to move both herself and her country forward in her area of influence.” Dhlanga said he will use his skills as both a marketer and writer to make a selection. "My marketing hat will look for someone who is able to represent themselves effortlessly and is able to resonate with an audience that will only ever have access to them through the media and someone who is able to connect on a deeper level on a one on one basis as well. As a writer, I will be looking for someone who has a transcendent story that will resonate across all sectors of South Africa and can connect with the globe as well.” Van Breda told contestants to show judges who they are. 
	
	"You got to the Top 12 because the judges identified something they were really impressed with and liked – something original, something authentic, something different, something powerful. That is your strength. Stick to it. Use it. Talk and act from the heart.
	
	“Modern women are not afraid to get real and to get the job done. These are the very traits I will be looking for in Miss SA 2018. Someone who will be an ambassador and a spokesperson for women, our country and the Miss SA brand."
	
	Vermeiren who has been a model and TV presenter said while looks are important, the winner should be someone who is well-rounded. "I will be looking for someone who is media savvy, confident, compassionate and understanding of the challenges our country faces. My advice to all finalists is to clear their minds of all the hype and focus on bringing the best of themselves to the table. Don’t pretend to be something you’re not, keep it real and keep it natural.” Mtongana understands the pressure of what it takes to succeed on a global stage and she is looking for the country's new "It-girl". "Someone who steps into a room and commands everyone’s attention, without even saying a word. She is confident, yet humble, she has international appeal, yet is firmly grounded on local soil. She has a clear vision of who she is and what she wants to achieve and is looking to make an impactful mark on the world, not only for herself but for our nation,” the chef said. The Miss South Africa competition has a different format this year. Two winners will be announced: one will received the Miss World South Africa and one will be crowd Miss Universe South Africa. The two will go on to represent South Africa in the respective international competitions. READ: Top local designers to dress Miss SA finalists As there can only be one reigning Miss South Africa, the two winners will be asked one final question by the selection panel who will then determine the ultimate Miss SA winner. The new beauty queen wins a R3-million prize package. This year’s Top 12 finalists are Akile Khoza, Anzelle von Staden, Bryoni Govender, Daniellë de Jager, Karishma Ramdev, Margo Fargo, Noxolo Ndebele, Tamarin Bensch, Tamaryn Green, Thandokazi Mfundisi, Tharina Botes and Thulisa Keyi. The final takes place on Sunday, May 27 at the Sun Arena at Time Square, Pretoria. It will be televised live and simulcast on M-Net (DStv Channel 101) and Mzansi Magic (DStv Channel 161). eNCA