JOHANNESBURG - Premier Soccer League (PSL) chairperson  Irvin Khoza says he has never met or had any contact with Jennifer Ferguson. Ferguson is the woman who accused South African Football Association (Safa) president Danny Jordaan of raping her in a Port Elizabeth hotel room over 20 years ago. Jordaan denied the charges brought against him by Ferguson, who is now based in Sweden. READ: Irvin Khoza denies paying for Jennifer Ferguson's flights However, reports this week claimed Jordaan's lawyer had opened a case against Khoza, claiming he was trying to derail the Safa boss' hopes of winning the upcoming elections by supporting Ferguson - a singer and former ANC Member of Parliament (MP) - by paying for her flights and accommodation. There are supposedly emails to support the claim that Khoza, or someone associated with him, made payments to Ferguson. Ferguson previously said her flights had been paid for by an “anonymous donor” and this week rubbished claims she conspired with Khoza against Jordaan, describing it as a "smear campaign" and "smokescreen". She said Jordaan’s camp tried to cast doubt over her character and was trying to deflect away from the original rape charge. She also denied ever having been in contact with Khoza. READ: Jordaan lays charges against Jennifer Ferguson, Irvin Khoza Khoza on Thursday called a press conference at the PSL headquarters, denying all allegations levelled at him, saying he wanted to set the record straight after what he described as “years of false accusations made against him”. The PSL Chairman told the media allegations made by Jordaan against him were "absurd" "I've called you here today to tell you, unequivocally, I don't know Miss Jennifer Ferguson nor have I ever spoken to her or anyone who knows her," he started off by saying. "To the full extent of the law, I'm not going to stop at anything until my name is cleared by my accusers. "The charges of defamation, criminal collusion and conspiracy, which the media is quoting, are unfounded and have no bearing on the truth," he later added. According to Khoza, this is not the first time that Jordaan has accused him of a criminal act. READ: SA to back Morocco World Cup bid: Jordaan "It is a pattern of conspiracy theories which are created as diversions," he claimed. "These outrageous conspiracy theories, making allegations of a serious nature, are later abandoned when the diversional mission is accomplished. "Common to these events is that Dr Danny Jordaan, the aggressor, is portrayed as a victim of the 'all-powerful' Dr Irvin Khoza," the Orlando Pirates boss stated. Khoza then made mention of previous incidents: allegations levelled against him in 2004 after Jordaan had reportedly been shot at and in 2009, when he said he was accused of trying to stage an 'imaginary coup' against Safa. African News Agency