JOHANNESBURG – The sentencing of former Western Cape police chief Arno Lamoer to six years behind bars has been welcomed by various institutions. Lamoer was sentenced on Thursday to eight years behind bars, two years of which were suspended. Among institutions that have flagged support for the conviction is the Hawks. The Directorate for Priority Crime Investigations says Lamoer’s conviction will send a strong message to other corrupt officials. READ: Businessman admits to having a corrupt relationship with Lamoer “It's a bitter-sweet day in terms of ... these former senior officials,” the acting head of the unit, Yolisa Matakata, said. Wow! #ANC appointed Former Cape Police Commissioner #Lamoer found guilty & sentence to 6 years effectively.(Ironically he was appointed by then Commissioner #BhekiCele and #NathiMthethwa (Now Culture Minister)#ANC just knows how to appoint “the right” people--#ArnoLamoer pic.twitter.com/feKvOOkl5J “We wouldn't want to see this happening in this organisation [but] ... we appreciate the sentence, it will send a strong message to everyone.." The sentiments were shared by the chairperson of Parliament's Portfolio Committee on Police, Francois Beukman. He said the sentence would send a clear message that the rule of law must be adhered to at all times. “We are of the view that the sentence will serve as a deterrent to any police officer not to engage in acts of corruption. Furthermore, the sentence will serve to reassure the public that no one is above the law,” Beukman said. #Lamoer good news never seas to amaze.... yesterday was someone going to jail, 2day is another one. Its great when the law take its course. Thieves are going down one by one, be very afraid if you r one of them On behalf of the committee, he called for the South African Police Service to be cleared of rogue elements and for the restoration of confidence in the police's ability to provide safety and security to the people of South Africa. Meanwhile, the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) said it was making progress in forcing corrupt state officials to face the full might of the law. READ: Former Western Cape top cop Lamoer sentenced The NPA says battling corruption is a daily fight in South Africa. #Lamoer from commissioner to prisoner. I hope he did not ill treat the prison warders while in charge.....-- eish life hey!! “You will remember during the trial… we had the IPID as well as ... the NPA highlighting cases against government officials,” said NPA spokesperson Eric Ntabalaza. “Yes, there are cases we managed to prosecute over the years...It's a work in progress, where there are people within the state whom we arrest and prosecute...that is very unfortunate, it's something we don't want ... [but] it's a reality we have to fight on a daily basis." eNCA