JOHANNESBURG, 02 May 2018 - While most of us received just cake on our birthday, Naija musician Davido purchased his girlfriend and former Big Brother Nigeria participant Chioma Avrii Rowland a Porsche for her birthday. I give my baby ASSURANCE!!! I love you baby!! WE IN THIS 4 LIFE!! @thechefchi !! HAPPY BIRTHDAY CHIOM CHIOM !! FROM ME TO YOU!! I BOUGHT MY BABY A PORSCHE!! A post shared by  Davido Adeleke (@davidoofficial) on Celebrities felt that Davido’s gesture was a tad bit overboard and he had put his new girlfriend on a pedestal. Davido professed his love for his new girlfriend at the birthday party he held for Chioma. “I am in love. Some people are in love, they are scared to say it. I’m not afraid," he said. Davido talking about Chioma, what makes her so special to him and why he’ll marry her. pic.twitter.com/kVT1XXgr4V Lifetime insurance A post shared by  Davido Adeleke (@davidoofficial) on According to the BBC, the car’s price point is going at approximately R1.5-million ($124,650). Davido also dedicated his new hit track “Assurance”, which has hit 1million views on Youtube after 24 hours, to his girlfriend. Although, there had been celebrations galore surrounding the purchase, social media users weren’t pleased with the gesture. RIP to all the relationship that will End Tonight because Davido bought Porsche for chioma pic.twitter.com/Po5JwlQ7hp "Davido bought porsche for his girlfriend "
		
		Yes yes yes! Is my name Davido? Is Davido my name? Are my name Davido? pic.twitter.com/boShnJ7CwW Davido be putting boys under tension.
		Baba bought porsche of 45m for bae...me the only thing I can afford to buy for bae is solo coke and 50 naira gala.
		I need serious Assurance pic.twitter.com/EnjTy3GTwN When Davido is buying Chioma a Porsche on her birthday night but the only thing your own bf buys for you at night is suya pic.twitter.com/IV8sC3Did7 I just noticed that since Davido got a Porsche for Chioma, my gf has been looking at me somehow like as if she also wants Porsche. pic.twitter.com/fbSrPUjCtO Some Girls are actually going to start looking down on their Boyfriend because of the Davido and Chioma Porsche story.
		
		God Forbid. eNCA