NAIROBI – Kenyan authorities will investigate 10 financial institutions suspected of handling funds that were stolen from the government's National Youth Service (NYS), the Daily Nation newspaper reported on Thursday. Dozens of senior officials and business people have been taken into custody and face charges related to the theft of nearly $100-million (R1.2-billion) from the youth agency. The Daily Nation named nine commercial banks and a financial co-operative society as the institutions on which the police and central bank investigators are focusing. The list of lenders included Kenya's biggest lender by assets, KCB Group, and Standard Chartered's Kenyan unit. READ: Reserve Bank reports bleak situation at VBS Bank George Kinoti, the director of criminal investigations, told Reuters the list published by the newspaper was accurate. "They will be investigated," he said, without offering more details. Lamin Manjang, the chief executive of Standard Chartered Kenya, said: "We are unable to comment on the matter since it is under investigation by the authorised government agencies." KCB said in a statement: "This issue is under inquiry by legally mandated investigating authorities and is a subject matter of a court case." Other banks named in the list were Stanbic Kenya, Equity Group, Barclays Kenya, Co-op Bank, National Bank, Diamond Trust, Consolidated Bank and Unaitas, a financial co-operative. READ: Bank employees among eight arrested for R3m robbery Barclays Kenya said it takes governance seriously. "We are aware of the ongoing investigation at the National Youth Service. The matter is being investigated by the relevant government authorities," it told Reuters. "At Barclays Bank of Kenya, we take governance very seriously and to that end, we always co-operate fully with any investigating agencies as called upon." The other seven institutions were not immediately available to comment. Central bank governor Patrick Njoroge said on Tuesday an unspecified number of lenders were under investigation, with the first phase focusing on tracing the recipients of the funds from the NYS and recovering the assets. Reuters