PARIS - From an African-American detective infiltrating the Ku Klux Klan to Kurdish female fighters battling jihadists, here are the movies that will battle it out for the top Palme d'Or prize at the Cannes film festival, which gets under way on Tuesday: Everybody Knows Iranian master Asghar Farhadi kicks off the festival with a psychological thriller about a family reunion going awry, featuring Spanish stars Penelope Cruz and Javier Bardem. While Farhadi, 45, won an Oscar and the Golden Bear at Berlin for his 2011 breakthrough film, "A Separation", he is yet to take home the coveted Cannes prize. BlacKkKlansman US director and activist Spike Lee's drama is based on the real-life story of an African-American police officer who infiltrated the Ku Klux Klan in 1978. John David Washington plays him with Adam Driver as his Jewish police partner. The film will open in the US on the first anniversary of a white supremacist march in Charlottesville where an anti-racism activist was killed. #SpikeLee #BlacKkKlansman : "It's Not a Relic of the Past - This is Happening Today"
		Adam Driver and John David Washington joined the director to talk about their upcoming film.#AdamDriver #JohnDavidWashintong #THR #BTS
		Part 2 pic.twitter.com/YTXRqow10R Under the Silver Lake Four years after giving Cannes audiences nightmares with his thriller "It Follows", David Robert Mitchell returns with another spine-chiller, this time about the mysterious murder of a billionaire. READ: Cate Blanchett's feminist wake-up call to Cannes Dogman Italian director Matteo "Gomorra" Garrone's new work is not for the faint-hearted. Dubbed an "urban Western", the film is inspired by the gruesome murder by dog groomer and cocaine addict Pietro De Negri in the late 1980s. Three Faces Little is known about this portrait of three women by the Iranian dissident Jafar Panahi, who is banned from travel by Tehran. The festival and US director Oliver Stone have pleaded with the authorities to let the director, who has faced years of harassment and arrest, to fly to Cannes to show his film. The giant poster takes place above the steps of the Palais des Festivals !  #Cannes2018 pic.twitter.com/3Tn3pNfg2b Leto Russia's Kirill Serebrennikov is another director who may not be able to present his work at Cannes. Under house arrest over highly disputed allegations of embezzlement, his film focuses on Soviet rock star Viktor Tsoi and the birth of Russian underground music in the 1980s. #Cannes2018 films in competition (12): AT WAR by Stephane Brize'. After promising 1100 employees that they would protect their jobs, the managers of a factory decide to suddenly close up shop. But one man takes the lead in a fight against this decision. pic.twitter.com/9BOoCw7EaH At War As France grapples with rail strikes and student protests, French director Stephane Brize's gritty drama about factory workers battling to keep their jobs may hit a timely nerve. Cold War Amazon Studios is pinning its hopes on this tender black-and-white period romance set among the members of a touring folk group in the Eastern Bloc in the 1950s from Oscar-winning Polish-British director Pawel Pawlikowski. The Image Book Cinema's oldest and most enigmatic rebel, French-Swiss legend Jean-Luc Godard, has let little slip about his new film other than this enigmatic synopsis: "Nothing but silence, nothing but a revolutionary song, a story in five chapters like the five fingers of a hand." Girls of the Sun Kurdish women fighters battling the Islamic State are at the centre of French actor-director Eva Husson's new film. Iranian star Golshifteh Farahani plays Bahar, the leader of the Yazidi Sun Brigade, who hunts down the extremists who had earlier captured her. The Wild Pear Tree Turkish auteur Nuri Bilge Ceylan, who won the Palme d'Or four years ago for "Winter Sleep", is back with another Anatolian talkie, this time about a young provincial writer raging at his father. Proud moment for everyone at DFI: delighted to announce that we have set a first for an Arab film organisation, with 2 new co-financed films by DFI playing in competition at @Festival_Cannes: The Wild Pear Tree by Nuri Bilge Ceylan and Capharnaüm by Nadine Labaki! #Cannes2018 pic.twitter.com/kGMmglSFwn Ayka Kazakh Sergey Dvortsevoy -- who won many fans and prizes for his 2009 debut "Tulpan" -- was a late entry with his new docu-drama about a young homeless single mother adrift in the post-Soviet Central Asian state. Capernaum Lebanese actress-turned-filmmaker Nadine Labaki's third film is set in a Middle Eastern town. Her previous film "Where Do We Go Now?" premiered at Cannes in the Un Certain Regard section in 2010. Burning South Korean auteur Lee Chang-dong's new mystery drama is drawn from a short story by Japanese master Haruki Murakami, "Barn Burning", about a writer who becomes fascinated by a woman whose boyfriend burns barns. His first film in eight years, the cult director of "Oasis" and "Secret Sunshine" has an almost fanatical following. Knife + Heart French singer and actress Vanessa Paradis stars in the latest tale from Yann Gonzalez, who had a hit on the festival circuit with his quirky orgy drama, "You And The Night", with Beatrice Dalle and former footballer Eric Cantona. Asako 1 & 2 In this Japanese drama by Ryusuke Hamaguchi, a young woman meets her first love in Osaka. When he disappears without a trace, she moves on -- until his perfect double shows up two years later. Shoplifters Japanese master Hirokazu Kore-Eda, a longtime sweetheart of the Cannes jury, returns with a tale of a family of small-time crooks who take in a child they find on the street. Yomeddine A Coptic leper and his orphaned apprentice leave the confines of their colony for the first time and embark on a journey across Egypt to search for what is left of their families. Lazzaro Felice Rising star Italian director Alice Rohrwacher, already a prize winner at Cannes, is back with a time-travelling story which takes in the fascist 1930s. Sorry Angel The new film by Christophe Honore, the man behind the charming French musical "Love Songs", is a gay love story when the AIDS epidemic was at its height. Ash is Purest White Chinese director Jia Zhangke's new film is a story of "violent love" between a mobster and a dancer starring Zhao Tao and Liao Fan. It is a follow-up to his "Mountains May Depart", which also competed for the Palme d'Or in 2015. AFP