JOHANNESBURG – The government and public sector unions will meet on Friday to try and resolve the almost eight-month-long wage negotiations and avert looming public sector strike. The talks have been marred by delays, disputes and the threat of a complete shutdown of public services.
	
	Public sector unions are lobbying for above-inflation wage increases of about 12 percent, while the government has tabled offers linked to consumer inflation, currently at 3.8 percent. The unions represent teachers, the police, nurses and administrative staff. READ: Labour analysts call for speedy public wage negotiations “By 1 April expectations were that civil servants were going to get their increases and they didn’t,' said Congress of South African Trade Unions spokesman Mike Shinge. “Everything that has to do with PAYE, the contribution of members to the medical aid has gone up. It means there’s been a reduction in salaries earned by the members.”
	
	The Treasury says the government will struggle to cut spending as promised if it fails to get unions to agree to inflation-linked wage increases. In March, Moody’s decided against downgrading the country to junk status after the government committed to reduce public spending. This prompted criticism from unions, civil society and opposition parties. READ: Public sector unions warn of a total shutdown “If our members are not happy with what they’re offering, we’re going to the CCMA on the 14th (May). If things are not going our way we have no choice but to adhere to the demands and concerns of our members,” said Public Servants Association general manager Ivan Fredericks.
	
	Analysts say organisations like the Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration will play an important role in preventing a strike action. “Their role is simply to facilitate to see if they can find a middle ground for the two parties that have deadlocked as a result of what should constitute as an agreed increase percentage,” Osborne Molatudi of Hogan Lovells said. In addition to the wage issue, unions are demanding that vacant posts in government be filled. eNCA