JOHANNESBURG - The South African Reserve Bank says the financial situation at VBS Bank is much worse than initially believed. The bank released its annual Bank Supervision Department report on Tuesday, saying it had put in place very tough measures to protect the interests of depositors. “The investigator has uncovered what looks like fraud,” said Reserve Bank Deputy Governor Kuben Naidoo. “Too early to tell. It is quite clear that the financial statements issued by the bank for the year ending 31 March were not a fair reflection of what was actually happening at the bank. “Not a good picture inside the bank. We’re doing everything to protect and safeguard depositors’ interest.” The Reserve Bank says a forensic investigation is being conducted to assess whether there are cases of fraud at the bank. Last year, it placed VBS under curatorship as details of financial management at the bank came to light. The Venda-based bank made headlines in 2016 when it granted then president Jacob Zuma a R7.9-million loan for his Nkandla home. READ: African Bank strengthens board with new directors The regulator says its assessment of financial institutions shows that banks still need to strengthen controls when it comes to compliance with the Financial Intelligence Act. Its report shows it imposed a total of R77.5-million in administrative fines on VBS and China Construction Bank for failure to comply with the  Act. The banks were penalised for "not identifying and verifying their customers' details, not keeping records of customer identification, inadequate controls and working methods pertaining to the reporting of suspicious transactions". READ: Gauteng Treasury to investigate VBS Mutual Bank investments The report says that despite market uncertainty - both at global and domestic level - the growth rate of banking sector assets continues. But macroeconomic conditions continue to be unsupportive of meaningful and robust growth in credit extension, as appetite for household credit also remains sluggish. “The very weak economic environment is a challenge,” said Naidoo. “Political uncertainty and weak business confidence is a challenge. Some of that has mitigated over the last three months. “The general business environment has improved. Competition is an ongoing challenge.” A prudential regulator will also be established within the Reserve Bank. The body will be responsible for regulating banks, insurers, cooperative financial institutions, financial conglomerates and certain market infrastructures. eNCA