JOHANNESBURG - An independent inquiry is investigating allegations of sexual harassment against senior staff at civil society group Equal Education. Three staffers have tendered their resignation after damning media reports. Treasurer Doron Isaacs resigned last week, while general secretary Tshepo Motsepe and the head of national organising, Luyolo Mazwembe, quit last month. The mandate of the panel is to investigate allegations regarding the former General Secretary, but it is empowered to refer any other matter arising for further investigation, exploration, or attention, either as a stand-alone matter or as part of the broader assessment process. The panel comprises Mercia Andrews, co-director of the Trust for Community Outreach and Education; Madoda Cuphe, director of programmes at the Alternative Information and Development Centre; and Clare Ballard, an attorney at Lawyers for Human Rights. "This has been an incredibly difficult period for Equal Education," the organisation said in a statement. "We know that the trust and confidence that our supporters have placed in us, and the reputation that we have built over 10 years of struggle, has been damaged by what has transpired. "However, we are committed to confronting these difficult times in our movement’s history, with honesty and with integrity. " READ: Teachers charged with sexual misconduct to be disciplined Another prominent activist, Zackie Achmat, has come under fire. He is accused of covering up sexual misconduct allegations against Isaacs. Achmat -- who was chairperson of Equal Education at the time of the alleged harassment -- has denied shielding Isaacs or any other wrongdoing. Women reportedly came out blaming NGOs for not taking action against alleged sexual misconduct in the activism space, dating back years. Several women told weekly newspaper Mail & Guardian that they were harassed by male managers at Equal Education. On Wednesday, Western Cape Education MEC Debbie Schäfer asked the NGO to provide details on whether staffers had been vetted before being assigned to work at schools. "Sexual abuse against young female learners is prevalent in our communities, as raised by Equal Education on a number of occasions, and it is distressing that such allegations have been made against high ranking members of their own organisation," she said in a statement. "In the meantime, I have requested that our chief director for districts immediately investigate what measures are taken by NGO’s working in our schools to vet their members, and put whatever processes are necessary, in place." African News Agency