DURBAN – DA councillors in the eThekwini metro in KwaZulu-Natal find themselves in increasingly dangerous situations and the matter requires urgent attention by both the city and the police, DA eThekwini caucus leader Nicole Graham said on Sunday. Another DA councillor had been attacked in KwaZulu-Natal, the second attack in the last seven days, she said. Ward 58 councillor Geoff Pullan was "attacked and assaulted by his ward committee secretary" during a committee meeting on Wednesday, Graham said. Our ward 58 Councillor, Geoff Pullan, was assaulted by his ward committee secretary on Wednesday. Charges have been laid. Our Councillors work in increasingly tough circumstances. Get well soon, Geoff. pic.twitter.com/zDpZGJR8uL Pullan and the secretary "had a dispute about the register, and in response, the secretary attacked him. His head was hit against the wall and window, he has bruises and abrasions on his head and body," she said. READ: ANC PE councillor acquitted in council stabbing case On Sunday, May 7, DA councillor Sihle Magubane was "assaulted and strangled by ANC members" in Mhlathuze during an altercation concerning a hall that the DA had booked for a meeting. The ANC clearly has no respect for multiparty democracy or even democracy in its self, there actions show an increasingly authoritarian party fearing being replaced by a party that will do the job! @DA_KZN https://t.co/Pd2Odkchfl Both incidents had been reported to the police and cases had been opened. The matter had also been reported to the speaker's office and Pullan was requesting that the committee be dissolved. "The ward committee secretary is reportedly an ANC member," Graham said. "This kind of thuggish behaviour has no place in a democratic society," she said. In March this year, councillor Warren Burne also laid assault charges against a member of his ward committee. Both councillor Pullan and councillor Burne won their wards from the ANC for the first time since the 2016 local government elections. READ: More political killings in KwaZulu-Natal "DA councillors find themselves in increasingly dangerous situations in eThekwini and the province as a whole, and this matter requires urgent attention by both the city and the SAPS. We wish councillor Pullan well in his recovery and will not allow thuggish behaviour to deter our mission of bringing total change to KZN," Graham said. Earlier in the week, ANC Eastern Cape leader Andile Lungisa was sentenced to two years behind bars for assaulting the DA's head of the Nelson Mandela Bay mayoral committee for transport, Rano Kayser. African News Agency