DURBAN - Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini KaBhekuzulu has used his acceptance speech at the University of Zululand to lash out at the university. #KINGDOCTORATE Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini KaBhekuzulu slams the very same University of Zululand that honoured him with an Honorary Doctorate in Social Work, for lack of ideological position and African scholarship.@eNCA pic.twitter.com/c5uZ0nvZoV The University of Zululand bestowed an honorary doctorate on him in recognition of his philanthropic work to alleviate poverty and suffering in his community. #KINGDOCTORATE Conferment of Honorary Doctorate on Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini KaBhekuzulu by the University of Zululand.@eNCA pic.twitter.com/BlzfaRC7J0 However, Zwelithini, accused the institution of failing to advance the development of African scholarship to replace western ideas. “One might ask, why is it that after so many years after the establishment of our institutions of higher learning ... rural development, which we all know is a reference to us as Africans, still receive no attention at all,” he said. “If it does, it's merely a reference point for international donors and NGOs. There are no concrete plans and budget for it. “Universities instead have created a curriculum on poverty studies. I’m sure, ladies and gentlemen, you’ll agree with me that this has become an era of glorifying poverty instead of designing courses to overcome it and developing capacity for development of the people and the environment in which they live. “So then, from where I stand, the possible answer from where I stand is that institutions such as UniZulu have failed to develop African scholarships to the level of replacing western ideation.” #KINGDOCTORATE Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini KaBhekuzulu takes to the podium. The University of Zululand, oNgoye has conferred an Honorary Doctorate in Social Work on the King for his “philanthropic” work.@eNCA pic.twitter.com/99ZNUvYQvb Zwelithini was being recognised for his work in combating social ills among the youth. Deputy President David Mabuza on Friday applauded the king for his contribution to the fight against HIV. “Only those who deliberately refuse to be witness to the progress you have made in changing the lives of the people of this province,” Mabuza said. “Only those who close their eyes cannot hear the testimonies of the lives being changed for the better by the work of the majesty. In His Majesty we find an extraordinary South African, a torchbearer leading South Africa and KwaZulu-Natal to proscribe HIV and Aida to the dustbin of history.” Zwelinti used the occasion on Friday to speak about the Ingonyama Trust and social grants, among others, saying grants make people lazy. #KINGDOCTORATE King Goodwill Zwelithini KaBhekuzulu of the Zulu Nation has vowed never to release the land held by his Ingonyama Trust to government ownership. He says Government has failed on land reform & redistribution and is full of crooks and failures.@eNCA pic.twitter.com/9kqV1Al12X #KINGDOCTORATE Social grants make people very lazy, says Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini KaBhekuzulu. He was speaking at the University of Zululand, northern KZN. UNIZULU conferred an Honorary Doctorate in Social Work on the King. The institution bestowed one on him in 1994.@eNCA pic.twitter.com/Kc0hBK8Tmo eNCA