JOHANNESBURG - Whistleblowers at SALA – the municipal pension fund, which has come under the spotlight for investing R340 million into a little-known company Sampada – have now turned on Novare Consulting, the fund advisor. There are rising concerns that the money which belongs to the pension fund’s members may have been syphoned off. The Financial Service Conduct Authority (FSCA) has already launched an investigation into claims that the fund with 20,000 members may have been prejudiced. Sampada CEO Bafedile Mafologele, who had previously claimed that the deal was above board, this week resorted to threats. When asked if he was aware the FSCA was investigating the deal he angrily responded: “People are feeding you with wrong information. I am going to come after you with every fibre of my being, you can write in the paper that Bafedile is coming after you with his every fibre of his being". Problems with the deal surfaced soon after it was signed in 2015. It is alleged that disagreements over the spoils resulted in other managers launching a spirited attempt, which continues to this day, to recover the money. Some of the people involved have since left the pension fund. An investigator who was part of the ENSAfrica investigation team hired to look at the deal after it was signed said irregularities were unearthed that included deficiencies in financial reporting, high management fees and inaccurate manager expense allocation, but the probe was stopped abruptly. The investigator said efforts to get details on Sampada and SALA deal were hampered by parties involved when they failed to provide information when requested to do so. However, he said the investigation was called off before it concluded. SALA insiders claim concerned managers have now pointed fingers at Novare Consulting questioning advice it gave when entering the dodgy deal. On Tuesday, Novare Consulting denied any wrongdoing or that it failed to do “a complete due diligence on Sampada.” The parent company, Novare Holdings CEO Johan Henn dismissed the allegations levelled against his company saying they were "totally unfounded and obviously vexatious”. "The advice we gave SALA on Sampada was all done and documented according to regulatory requirements,” insisted Henn. African News Agency