JOHANNESBURG - The South African National Editors’ Forum (Sanef) is on Monday mourning the death of world famous photojournalist Masana Samuel “Sam” Nzima. The 83-year-old photographer, best known for his iconic image of Hector Pieterson during the 1976 Soweto Uprising, died in a Nelspruit hospital after a short illness on Saturday. WATCH: Tributes pour in for iconic photographer Sam Nzima “Nzima was part of a generation of courageous journalists that stood up and reported on the brutality of the apartheid regime. He reported without fear or favour. He is a reminder of the fearless role played by a number of journalists in the struggle for democracy that now guarantees us freedom of the media, freedom of expression and access to information,” the forum said in a statement. Born in 1934 in the village of Lilydale in Mpumalanga, Nzima’s image of Pieterson got international attention as to the plight of black South Africans during Apartheid. “Nzima’s iconic photograph of a dying Hector Pieterson became a symbol of resistance against apartheid, generally, and the imposition of Afrikaans as a medium of instruction in black schools in particular,” Sanef said. READ: Photographer who took iconic Hector Pieterson picture dies The photographer was praised for his contribution, especially to young South Africans. “Nzima’s commitment to development and transformation continued way after his famous photograph. As at the time of his death, he was building a college to teach young people photojournalism in his hometown of Lilydale,” the forum added. Nzima was placed under house arrest for 19 months in Lilydale, shortly after his image was published. READ: Duma Ka Ndlovu pays tribute to Sam Nzima “As Sanef, we hope that young journalists will take inspiration from his deep courage and his unwavering commitment to transformation and the deepening of democracy at huge personal risk. As an industry, we are honoured to have had journalists such as Nzima as part of our ranks,” the statement ended. eNCA