JOHANNESBURG – “When the praises go up, the blessings come down,” sings Chance The Rapper at the end of his Castle Lite Unlocks performance alongside the Soweto Gospel Choir at the Ticket Pro Dome in Northgate. Blessings !!@chancetherapper #CastleLiteUnlocks pic.twitter.com/95MpKF04ib Chance The Rapper and the Soweto Gospel Choir was a moment. Wow. Known to be loved by the Obama’s and being mentored by the controversial musician Kanye West, Chance The Rapper brought an electrifying performance to 10 000 attendees on Monday with enormous LED stage production and pyrotechnics. Thank you very much @chancetherapper I was so blessed of your performance. Really shook me, this is how I walked out of the arena looking forward to see you back here#CastleLiteUnlocks #ChanceTheRapper pic.twitter.com/bHCOmanPns A few fun facts about Chance The Rapper: Chancelor Jonathon Bennet was born on the 16th of April in 1993 in Chicago’s South Side. He is professionally known as Chance The Rapper, the American rapper and producer is known for gaining recognition as one of the biggest breakout artists achieving fame and success in a rather unorthodox way. The rapper avoided major labels and depended fiercely on reclaiming his independence by beginning his own record label. In 2012 Chance recorded his first solo mixtape, 10 day which featured the likes of Vic Mensa and Flying Lotus. Back then he went as Chano and formulated his own boy band with a friend and his brother to launch a rap career. Golden Globe winner Donald Glover also known as Childish Gambino opened up another door for Chance The Rapper in 2012 by featuring him on the track They Don’t Like Me. Chance had been already working on his  acclaimed album Acid-Rap. In May 2016, Bennett released his third mixtape Coloring Book to critical acclaim. It earned him three Grammy Awards, including Best Rap Album. Coloring Book, the third free mixtape from Chance, dropped in May 2016. Again, an eclectic range of guests accompanied him — among them Kanye West, Lil Wayne, 2 Chainz, T-Pain and Justin Bieber. The single No Problem was an instant hit. The album became the first ever to chart on the Billboard 200 just from streaming, receiving 57.3 million in its first week alone. Coloring Book became the first streaming-only album to receive a nomination for, and win, a Grammy. He’s also politically active, and a recent act of philanthropy, which saw him donate $1 million to Chicago public schools, even had fellow Chicagoan Michelle Obama tweeting her praise for him: “Thanks for giving back to the Chicago community, which gave us so much. You are an example of the power of arts education.”  Thanks @chancetherapper for giving back to the Chicago community, which gave us so much. You are an example of the power of arts education. Chance went on to tweet: "My first show here was a life-changing experience. Thank you so much Johannesburg". My first show here was a life changing experience. Thank you so much Johannesburg. — Chance The Rapper (@chancetherapper) April 30, 2018 Local performances included Shane Eagle, Nadia Nakia and Frank Casino. #castleliteunlocks #BraggaUnlocked  @lashshots pic.twitter.com/CjE70fMg90 My fav rapper @Shane_Eagle delivered a dope performance of Winter  at the #CastleLiteUnlocks yesterday @chancetherapper pic.twitter.com/Trbd2KIVXO eNCA