CAPE TOWN – The drought in the Western Cape as dam levels across the province rise. According to the Western Cape government, the average level for dams across the province on Monday was 19 percent, an improvement on the 16.6 percent at this time last week. Local Government, Environmental Affairs and Development Planning MEC Anton Bredell says it is heartening to see dam levels increasing. “Most major dams in the Western Cape are showing slight increases,” said Bredell. “The Voëlvlei Dam (currently 16.6 percent full this week versus 14.2 percent last week), the Theewaterskloof Dam (14.7 percent full this week versus 11.8 percent last week) and the Bergriver Dam (42 percent full this week versus 37 percent last week) are all showing slight improvements.” READ: Drought-stricken Cape Town counts the cost There is more good news for drought-stricken Western Cape residents as heavy rains are forecast for this week. A strong cold front will make landfall in Cape Town on Monday, with meteorological models showing significant rainfall and possible localised flooding. Heavy rainfall and localised flooding  are possible in parts of the Cape Metropole, the western Overberg district and western parts of the Cape Winelands, the South African Weather Service warns. READ: Theft, vandalism compromising Cape Town water security eNCA Weather's latest models show coastal areas can expect between 20mm and 30mm of rain, while higher volumes are possible in the mountainous regions to the east of Cape Town.
	Bredell has cautioned that the drought is still far from over. “We have always warned that we need an above-average rainfall season and it needs to rain in the catchment areas for our dams to recover adequately,” says Bredell. “We are not close to feeling comfortable yet and we want to urge the public to continue to use water sparingly even if it is raining and even if dam levels are improving.”
	
	Bredell further says it is imperative that the dams in the province recover as much as possible ahead of the summer months. “The province is a winter-rainfall area and we are grateful that the rains seem to be coming this year,” he says. eNCA