LONDON - West Ham United have appointed former Manchester City boss Manuel Pellegrini as their new manager on a three-year deal, the Premier League club announced on Tuesday. Chilean Pellegrini left Chinese Super League club Hebei China Fortune on Saturday and replaces David Moyes, who guided the club to a 13th-place finish in the league this past season. READ: West Ham part company with Moyes "I am delighted to welcome Manuel Pellegrini to West Ham United. He is one of the world's most respected football coaches and we look forward to working with him," West Ham joint-chairman David Sullivan said.  "It was important that we appointed someone with knowledge and experience of the Premier League, who already has an understanding -- not only of the teams and players we face -- but of West Ham United and our ambitions." Your new West Ham United manager... #WelcomePellegrini pic.twitter.com/UuPWfGCZbz Former Villarreal, Real Madrid and Malaga boss Pellegrini returns to England two years after leaving Manchester City, who the 64-year-old led to the Premier League title in 2013-14. Sullivan said the appointment was made bearing in mind the demands of supporters for attacking football. Under Pellegrini, City scored an English record 151 goals in all competitions in his debut campaign in 2013-14. READ: Everton sack Allardyce "Manuel brings a reputation for attacking football and getting the best out of his players," Sullivan added. "We believe he will attract new talent to the London Stadium as well as improving the current squad." Pellegrini led City to another League Cup in 2016 before making way for current boss Pep Guardiola. One of Pellegrini's challenges at West Ham will be to deliver the sort of football that will bring fans flocking to London Stadium, the club's unpopular home since they left Upton Park in 2016. Fans have become increasingly disenchanted with the club's main owners, Sullivan and David Gold, this season and protested at some home games. Things reached a head in March when some supporters invaded the pitch during the 3-0 home defeat by Burnley. Reuters