CAPE TOWN - A win this weekend for Ajax Cape Town over Kaizer Chiefs may still not be enough to save the Urban Warriors from potential relegation.
	
	Victory over Amakhosi at the Cape Town Stadium on Saturday would guarantee that Ajax finishes out of the bottom two, as they would leapfrog one of Baroka FC or SuperSport United, who play each other in the final round of league action this weekend. READ: Final PSL fixtures set up relegation scrap However, the 'elephant in the room' as far as Ajax are concerned is that they could still possibly be docked 10 points – those points earned when the allegedly ineligible Tendai Ndoro was on the field.
	
	The Ndoro case has been dragging on for months now, with the Premier Soccer League (PSL) having twice attempted to refer the matter to world football governing body FIFA, who came back last week and said that the PSL should take it up with the South African Football Association (SAFA). READ: Mamelodi Sundowns take Premiership crown As things stand, the PSL want to set up a second arbitration on the matter, although Ajax is yet to indicate if they will agree to this and there is no clear date as to when a final ruling will be made.
	
	In terms of the table, Ajax is second from bottom, 10 points above Platinum Stars. Stars are however one of the teams they beat while Ndoro was on the park, meaning that if the Urban Warriors lose their case and are docked 10 points, Dikwena will likely be handed an additional three points, which would potentially see them finishing above Ajax and the Cape team getting automatically relegated, Stars instead going into the relegation-promotion play-offs.
	
	This scenario though may depend on Ajax's result against Chiefs, and how Stars get on in their final match, a home game against Bidvest Wits. READ: Sleepless nights ahead for PSL relegation candidates Meanwhile, Cape Town City is in potential trouble for allegedly flouting the PSL rules by donning the logo of a sports betting company on their playing kit without obtaining the necessary clearance.
	
	The Citizens could face expulsion or relegation if they lose their case, but they’ll have to wait until a hearing on June 6, SAFA legal officer Tebogo Motlanthe said recently.
	
	City is currently fifth on the standings and face AmaZulu in Durban in their final league match this Saturday. African News Agency