SYDNEY - Asian shares rose to near two-month highs on Monday on hopes of a thaw in US-China trade tensions as US President Donald Trump pledged to help technology company ZTE "get back into business, fast". A US ban has crippled the Chinese technology company. Spreadbetters signalled a flat start for European shares, with FTSE futures off 0.07 percent, while E-Minis for the S&P 500 rose 0.3 percent. Trump's comments on Sunday came ahead of a second round of trade talks between US and Chinese officials this week to resolve an escalating trade dispute. China had said last week its stance in the negotiations would not change. MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan rose 0.4 percent on Monday, while Japan's Nikkei tacked on 0.5 percent. Chinese shares came off the day's highs but were still upbeat after Trump's comments on ZTE , which JPMorgan analysts said was "a significant positive". READ: Products hit by US-China trade tensions Shanghai's SSE Composite rose 0.2 percent, while China's blue-chip was last up 0.8 percent. Hong Kong's Hang Seng index climbed more than 1 percent. "The fact Trump is now...working to find a resolution for ZTE marks the latest sign of thawing in Beijing-Washington relations," JPMorgan said. "Trump also needs China to remain on its side ahead of his meeting with North Korea's Kim and this also suggests that until the 12 June meeting the signalling from the US on trade will be more positive." The United States has said it will lift sanctions on Pyongyang if North Korea agrees to dismantle its nuclear weapons programme completely. Elsewhere in Asia, the Malaysian ringgit slipped 1 percent to a four-month trough against the dollar in the first onshore trade since a shock election upset last week. It has come off lows since then, while Malaysian stocks sank as much as 2.7 percent at one point but have bounced back to 0.7 percent up. Veteran Mahathir Mohamad came out of political retirement to lead the opposition Pakatan Harapan (Alliance of Hope) to a stunning victory against prime minister Najib Razak, a former protege he had accused of corruption. Some investors were concerned that populist promises such as repealing an unpopular goods and services tax and restoring a petrol subsidy could undermine the country's finances. But some analysts on Monday said Mahathir's proposals could be positive for the economy. "The repeal of GST, while only marginally negative for the fiscal deficit, will be a boon for consumers, who have been upset that they bear the burden of poor fiscal management and came out to vote against the establishment," said Trinh Nguyen, senior economist at Natixis. Reuters