PARLIAMENT - The South African Police Service admitted to Parliament that they neglected to act on findings of a threat assessment prior to kick-off at last month’s disastrous premiership game in Durban. The portfolios of Sport and Recreation Police held a joint meeting in Parliament on Tuesday. Last month, violence ensued at the Moses Mabhida stadium leaving 21 people injured after Kaizer Chiefs lost to Free State Stars. IN PICTURES: Suspects wanted by SAPS for Moses Mabhida stadium violence 697 security and police personnel were present for the match with its 26 000 spectators. Police now admit they neglected to act on findings of a threat assessment prior to kick-off. Earl Singh of the Police Commissioner’s Office said, “a threat assessment was submitted by the SAPS crime intelligence, and the following threats were identified – the pitch invasion was indicated as a possibility, the sales of illegal parking tickets, traffic congestion, increased crime in the vicinity of the stadium. “The turnstiles were overcrowded due to deviation, 18 turnstiles were open instead of 40.” There are also questions about security competence, following footage of fleeing security personnel during the commotion. WATCH: PSL feedback to Parliament on stadium violence Security Industry Regulatory Authority’s Stefan Badenhorst said, “At the day of the deployment the security officer that was screened prior to the event is not necessarily the officer that arrives for the event. And that is a particular problem because then you find security officers that are not adequately trained in the special events curriculum.” The PSL has called on lawmakers to assist in implementing harsher consequences for a pitch invasion in the future. READ: Minister wants judicial inquiry into violence at soccer matches PSL Chair Irvin Khoza said, “we want to submit that until such time in South Africa we criminalise invasion into the pitch of our supporters, once we start to identify the genesis of this criminality it will assist a great deal, so the responsibility will be placed on the supporters themselves.” A public investigation through state-owned insurance company Sasria is currently underway, while a request for a judicial enquiry into the has been welcomed. eNCA