JOHANNESBURG – Police Commissioner General Khehla Sitole on Wednesday commended the arrests of five suspects accused of stealing an estimated R4-million from companies. He also welcomed the recovery of over R1.5-million in stolen cash. Five suspects in total have been arrested in connection with two separate incidents. Sitole welcomed the arrests and reiterated the importance of coordination between law enforcement agencies to enhance crime fighting efforts. “The collaboration of our resources in order to fight against this scourge of bank-related crimes that threaten the economic viability of this country is yielding results,” he said. “This collaboration will go a long way in ensuring that we stamp the authority of the State in order to make sure that the citizens of South Africa are and feel safe. The thorough investigations going into these cases are commendable.” READ: Four dead in Brakpan taxi shooting Police said in the first incident, a security guard working for a cash delivery security company is alleged to have disappeared with a large amount of cash that was collected at a certain bank on the 30 April. The company reported the alleged theft at the Hillbrow police station and the case was transferred to provincial investigating unit. “The investigation team worked tirelessly to trace the suspects and on 17 May, Zenzele Nicho Khanyile was arrested in Doornfontein in Johannesburg,” the police said in a statement. “The team then proceeded to Nkandla in KwaZulu-Natal where they recovered over R200,000 as well as the American dollars estimated at R500,000, which were also part of the stolen cash. The suspect was arrested and appeared at the Hillbrow Magistrates Court on 21 May, facing a charge of theft of money. “He was remanded in custody until his next appearance on 29 May.” READ: Another suspect nabbed for alleged Glebelands Hostel shooting In another incident, police said two employees of another cash delivery security company, the driver and crew, are alleged to have collected cash from their various clients on 7 May 2018. “The duo then went back to their depot without that the collected money. The company then opened a case of theft of money estimated at R4.6-million at the Germiston police station. This case was also transferred to PIU for investigation. “The detectives worked in collaboration with the Ekurhuleni Metropolitan Police Department, taking an integrated approach in the fight against cash-related crimes,” the police said. “The team intensified their investigation to find the alleged stolen cash. Their intelligence led them to a house in Tsakane township in Ekurhuleni, resulting in the arrest of two suspects and in the recovery of a huge stash of cash estimated at R1.5-million on the 22 May.” The duo will appear in the Germiston Magistrate’s Court on Thursday. eNCA