PRETORIA – The ANC's National Executive Committee (NEC) is continuing talks to address leadership issues in the North West, the party said on Sunday. Supra Mahumapelo resigned as premier of the province last week, following weeks of protests during which he was accused of corruption. The party's Provincial Executive Committee (PEC) has suggested three people to replace Mahumapelo, but a decision is yet to be made. WATCH: Supra still a power force in the NW ANC Secretary-General Ace Magashule and party spokesperson Pule Mabe held an impromptu media briefing. "The discussions are still going on. We have not yet arrived at that position. We are saying we need further engagement – normally it's the practice. The Provincial Executive Committee is supposed to give us three names and they have done so but we further want to engage with the Provincial Executive Committee, as well as other structures so that we take on board (to) resolve the problems of the North West once and for all," said Magashule. Magashule said the NEC is also engaging traditional leaders on the debate about land expropriation without compensation. Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini on Friday warned those calling for the expropriation of the land that falls under traditional leaders. WATCH: ANC has power to pass land reform legislation: Ngcukaitobi This followed remarks made by former president Kgalema Motlanthe that some traditional leaders were behaving like village dictators. "We are saying we need to further consult with everybody. The alliance are happy that they participated in the workshop. We've taken a decision to engage traditional leaders in South Africa so that is work, work in progress and we're saying the views of Kgalema was not the views of Kgalema as an individual. "It was the views of a panel appointed by Parliament and it was not the views of the ANC when it comes to the issue of traditional leadership and the land. We are saying as the ANC we need to understand that there are other views and we need to bring these views together. That's why we'll be engaging the traditional leadership." eNCA